











































 

RAILWAY RECRUITMENT BOARDS 
Government of India, Ministry of Railways  

 

CEN 03/2015 –  Important Notice 
For the candidates appeared in 2nd Stage Exam (CBT) of NTPC (Graduate) Posts 

  
All the candidates who had appeared in the 2nd Stage CBT during 17th to 19thJanuary, 
2017 were advised to exercise option of filling fresh post preferences from 08.05.2017 
(00.00 hrs) to 14.05.2017 (23.59 hrs) through the link provided for the purpose on RRB 
websites.  

On the analysis of revised options received till last date, it is noticed that while most of 
the candidates have submitted their revised post preferences, few have not done 
so.  Therefore, in the case of such candidates, their initial post preferences filled up at 
the time of application have been extracted and interpolated. 

Next Stage of multi-post, multi-community, PWD, Ex-Servicemen wise short listing of 
candidates for Aptitude (Psycho) & Typing Skill Tests on the basis of revised post 
preferences and its detailed checking may take about two to three weeks.  

Accordingly, the shortlists for Aptitude (Psycho) & Typing Skill Tests will be published on 
completion of the above stated processes.    

 For the posts of Category No. 7 & 8 (ASM & Traffic Assistant); Aptitude Test shall be 
conducted for which candidates equal to eight times the number of vacancies shall be 
called. The merit for these posts will be drawn only for the candidates qualifying in the 
Aptitude Test, with 70% weightage being given to the marks obtained in the 2nd stage 
CBT and 30% weightage being given to the marks obtained in Aptitude Test. (Refer Para 
8.03 of CEN No. 03/2015 and modified vacancy table). 

For the posts of Category No. 5 & 6 (Jr. Accounts Assistant-cum-Typist and Sr. Clerk-
cum-Typist);Typing Skill Test of qualifying nature (marks obtained in typing skill test shall 
not be added for making merit) shall be conducted for which the number of candidates 
equal to eight times the number of vacancies shall be called for. The candidates should 
be able to type 30 WPM in English or 25 WPM in Hindi on Computer only with disabling 
editing tools and spell check facility. KrutiDev & Mangal font shall be made available for 
candidates appearing for Typing Skill Test in Hindi. The merit of these posts will be 
drawn only for the candidates who qualify in the Typing Skill Test, based on performance 
in 2nd stage CBT. (Refer Para 8.03 of CEN No. 03/2015 and modified vacancy table). 

For the posts of Category No. 1, 2, 3 & 4 (Commercial Apprentice, Traffic Apprentice, 
ECRC & Goods Guard); merit will be drawn on the basis of marks obtained in 2nd Stage 
CBT only, but will be finalised after conclusion of Aptitude Test and Typing Skill Test. 

In the meantime, normalized score cards of the 2nd Stage examination held during 17th to 
19th January, 2017 will be provided  to the candidates through RRB websites by 
26.5.2017(Friday). 
  
Candidates are hereby advised that all necessary communications regarding further 
steps shall continue to be brought to their notice in due course through Website of the 
respective Railway Recruitment Boards and/or through SMS/emails. 
   

Date: 20.05.2017  
Chairpersons 

Railway Recruitment Boards 

  



 

FAQ for Aptitude Test 

Ques. 1 -  Aptitude Test is applicable to which posts of NTPC (Graduate) Exam. against CEN 
No. 03/2015? 

Ans. - Aptitude Test is applicable to the post of Assistant Station Master (Cat. No. 7) and 
Traffic Assistant (Cat. No. 8). 

Ques. 2 -  What will be the mode of Aptitude Test? 

Ans. - Aptitude Test will be conducted only in Computer Based Test (CBT) mode.  

Ques. 3 - Whether original Medical Certificate by Eye Specialist is compulsory to appear in 
Aptitude Test? 

Ans. - Yes. As per Annexure – IX of CEN No. 03/2015, Medical Certificate certifying the 
requisite vision on proper proforma duly signed and stamped by Eye Specialist is 
compulsory to appear in Aptitude Test. A colour photo should also be pasted on the 
space provided in the Medical Certificate and to be attested by Eye Specialist.  

Ques. 4 -  How many times of the vacancies, candidates will be shortlisted for Aptitude Test? 

Ans. - For the post of Category No. 7 & 8 (ASM & Traffic Assistant), Aptitude Test shall be 
conducted for which candidates equal to eight times the number of vacancies shall be 
called for.   

Ques. 5 -  How the merit will be drawn for the post of ASM & Traffic Assistant? 

Ans. - The merit will be drawn only for the candidates found suitable in the Aptitude Test, 
with computation of 70% weightage being given to the marks obtained in 2nd Stage 
CBT and 30% weightage being given to the marks obtained in Aptitude Test.  

Ques. 6 -  What will be the duration of Aptitude Test? 

Ans. - The duration of the Aptitude Test is 88 minutes. 

Ques. 7 -  Whether Demo link of Aptitude Test is available for aspiring candidates? 

Ans. - Yes, for the benefit of the candidates, a Demo Link of Aptitude Test is available at the 
following address.  

http://www.rdso.indianrailways.gov.in/view_section.jsp?lang=0&id=0,2,456 

Ques. 8 -  What documents the candidate is required to bring for appearing in the Aptitude Test? 

Ans. - (i) E-Call letter for the Aptitude Test, (ii) a recent passport size colour photograph (to 
be pasted on RRB counter foil of E-Call letter), (iii) original Medical Certificate on 
prescribed proforma to be issued by Eye Specialist with his signature and stamp along 
with pasting of a recent passport size colour photograph of the candidate on specified 
place and attested by Eye Specialist, (iv) original valid photo Identification Card.  

 No other document/item is allowed inside the Exam Venue.  

Ques. 9 -  What is the prescribed proforma for the Medical Certificate? 

Ans. - The prescribed proforma for the Medical Certificate to be given by Eye Specialist is 
mentioned in Annexure – IX of CEN No. 03/2015, a copy of which will be available 
along with E-Call Letter.  

Ques. 10 - Whether second chance may be given to the candidates who remained absent in 
Aptitude Test?  

Ans. - No.  

  

http://www.rdso.indianrailways.gov.in/view_section.jsp?lang=0&id=0,2,456


FAQ for Typing Skill Test 

Ques. 1 -  Typing Skill Test is applicable to which posts of NTPC (Graduate) Exam. against CEN 
No. 03/2015? 

Ans. - Typing Skill Test is applicable to the post of Jr. Accounts Assistant-cum-Typist (Cat. 
No. 5) and Sr. Clerk-cum-Typist (Cat. No. 6). 

Ques. 2 -  What will be the mode of Typing Skill Test? 

Ans. - Typing Skill Test will be conducted only on Computer to be provided by RRBs with 
disabling editing tools and spell check facility. KrutiDev & Mangal font shall be made 
available for candidates appearing Typing Skill Test in Hindi. 

Ques. 3 - What is the duration of Typing Skill Test? 

Ans. - The duration of Typing Skill Test will be 10 minutes. 

Ques. 4 - What is the minimum speed requirement in Typing Skill Test? 

Ans. - The minimum speed requirement in Typing Skill Test is 30 WPM in English or 25 
WPM in Hindi.  

Ques. 5 -  What documents the candidate is required to bring for appearing in the Typing Skill Test? 

Ans. - (i) E-Call letter for the Typing Skill Test, (ii) a recent passport size colour photograph 
(to be pasted on RRB counter foil of E-Call letter), (iii) original valid photo 
Identification Card.  

Ques. 6 -  Who is exempted from Typing Skill Test and what document should be submitted for 
the exemption? 

Ans. - PWD candidates who submit Medical Certificate stating “Being unable to perform the 
Typing Skill Test because of his/her physical disability ……………….” in prescribed 
proforma (i.e. Annexure – VIII of CEN-03/2015) issued by the Medical Board attached to 
the Special Employment Exchange or by a Civil Surgeon/Chief Medical Officer where 
such a Board does not exist, are exempted. Such certificate either should be uploaded 
online in the link https://cdn.digialm.com:443//EForms/configuredHtml/1181/3453/login.html 
w.e.f 03.06.2017 onwards but before the date of Typing Skill Test or may be submitted at 
the venue on the date of Typing Skill Test. It may be noted that the Exemption Certificate 
will not be accepted if found invalid/incomplete/defective and the concerned candidate 
will be eliminated from the selection process for respective post.     

Ques. 7 - What will happen to the PWD candidates who appeared in the Typing Skill Test but 
failed to qualify in the Typing Skill Test?  

Ans. - Such PWD candidates, if found otherwise eligible as per merit may be provisionally 
placed in the panel subject to the condition that they will have to qualify in Typing 
Skill Test within a period of 2 years from the date of appointment to the post.  

Ques. 8-  How many times of vacancies candidates will be shortlisted for Typing Skill Test? 

Ans. - For the post of Jr. Accounts Assistant-cum-Typist (Cat. No. 5) and Sr. Clerk-cum-
Typist (Cat. No. 6), Typing Skill Test shall be conducted for which candidates equal to 
eight times the number of vacancies shall be called for.   

Ques. 9 -  How the merit will be drawn for the post of Jr. Accounts Assistant-cum-Typist and Sr. 
Clerk-cum-Typist? 

Ans. - Typing Skill Test is qualifying in nature (i.e. marks obtained in Typing Skill Test shall not 
be added for making merit). Merit of these posts will be drawn only for the candidates 
who qualified in the Typing Skill Test, based on performance in 2nd stage CBT. 

Ques. 10 -  Whether Paragraph for Typing Skill Test will be shown in computer only? 

Ans. - Yes. Hard copy of the Paragraph for Typing Skill Test will not be given. 

Ques. 11 - Whether a candidate will be given a chance to rehearse themselves before actual 
Typing Skill Test in the Exam Hall.  

Ans. - Yes. 

Ques. 12 - Whether second chance may be given to the candidates who remained absent in 
Typing Skill Test?  

Ans. - No.  

https://cdn.digialm.com/EForms/configuredHtml/1181/3453/login.html

