






















 

 

Detailed Centralized Employment Notification 

CEN 02/2018 

 

Government of India 

Ministry of Railways 

Railway Recruitment Boards 
 

Recruitment for various Posts in Level – 1 of 7th CPC Pay Matrix 
 

 



CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018
th(Recruitment for Various Posts in Level 1 of 7  CPC Pay Matrix)

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018

Date of publication: 10.02.2018. Date & Time of Closing: 12.03.2018 up to 23.59 Hrs.             

Computer Based Test (CBT): Tentatively scheduled during April and May, 2018.

Railway Recruitment Boards invite ONLINE applications from eligible candidates for the recruitment of various 
th

posts in Level 1 of 7  CPC Pay Matrix for the vacancies in various units of Indian Railways. Applications complete in 
all respect should be submitted ONLINE ONLY to any one of the Railway Recruitment Boards before 23.59 hrs of 
12.03.2018.

IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS

Candidates should ensure that they possess/fulfill all eligibility conditions prescribed for the post(s) as on the closing 
date for submitting application. CANDIDATES WAITING FOR RESULTS OF PRESCRIBED 
EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION SHOULD NOT APPLY. 

1) Applications are to be submitted ONLINE through RRB websites ONLY listed at Para 20.0 of this CEN. 
One application ONLY is required to be submitted to the selected RRB for all its notified posts in this CEN.  
Candidates can apply to only one RRB. Any attempt to submit more than one application by a candidate against 
this CEN shall result in disqualification and debarment.

2) Eligibility of the candidates will be considered only on the strength of the information furnished in the 
ONLINE Application. Candidates need NOT send printouts of application or Certificates or copies to RRBs 
concerned by post. If at any stage of recruitment or thereafter, it is found that any information furnished by the 
candidate in his/her application is false/incorrect or the candidate has suppressed any relevant information or 
the candidate does not satisfy the eligibility criteria for the post(s), his/her candidature will be  rejected forthwith.

3) Candidates are required to go through the vacancy table, ascertain their eligibility and then exercise options for 
the RRBs and post(s) within the RRB chosen as per their eligibility. The selection of RRB once exercised 
shall be final.

4) Candidates must ensure that they fulfill the prescribed medical standards for the post(s) they are opting for. 
Candidates who are found medically unsuitable for the opted post(s) shall not be given any alternative 
appointment.

5) Scale of pay:

 Level 01 of 7th CPC Pay Matrix with initial pay of ₹18000/- plus other allowances admissible at that time. 

6) Age (as on 01.07.2018): 18 - 31 Years - Refer para 5.1 for age relaxations.

7) Stages of Exam: There shall be a Computer Based Test (CBT). Candidates qualified in the CBT shall have to 
undergo Physical Efficiency Test (PET). Marks will be normalized in the CBT.  

rd8) Negative Marking: There shall be negative marking for incorrect answers in the CBT. 1/3  of the marks allotted 
for each question shall be deducted for wrong answer. 

9) Electronic gadgets like Mobile phones, bluetooth, pen drive, laptops, calculators, wrist watches or any other 
communication devices or pen/pencil are strictly NOT allowed inside the exam hall. Any infringement of this 
instruction shall entail summary rejection besides legal action including debarment from future examinations.

10) Candidates are advised in their own interest not to bring any of the banned items including mobile phones etc. to 
the venue of the examination, as arrangements for safe keeping cannot be assured.

11) Candidates should have their own mobile number and valid & active personal email id and keep them 
active for the entire duration of recruitment as RRBs shall send all recruitment related communications 
only through SMS and email till the recruitment is completely over. RRBs will not entertain any request 
for change of mobile number and e-mail address at any stage.

12) Before filling up of the online application, candidates are advised to thoroughly read the entire instructions and 
information in the CEN available on the websites of RRBs.

 Candidates are advised to visit only official websites of the RRBs indicated at Para 20.0 of this CEN and 
be very cautious about fake websites and job racketeers.

1.0	  GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

1.1   	Admission to all stages of recruitment process shall be purely provisional, subject to the candidates satisfying 
the prescribed eligibility conditions.

1.2 	 Mere issue of e-call letter to the candidates will NOT imply that their candidature has been finally accepted by 
the RRB.

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS

RAILWAY RECRUITMENT BOARDS

1



1.3 	 RRBs conduct verification of eligibility conditions with reference to original documents only after the candidates 
have qualified in all the stages of examinations and are shortlisted for Document Verification.  RRBs may reject 
the candidature of any applicant at any stage of recruitment process in case the candidate is found to be not 
fulfilling the requisite criteria and if appointed, such a candidate shall be removed from service summarily.

1.4 Before applying for the post(s) against this notification, candidates should satisfy themselves that they fulfill all 
the eligibility norms including age, educational qualification(s) and medical standard(s). Candidates should 
ensure that they have requisite qualifications from recognized Board/Institute as on the date of Closure for 
submission of the application for this CEN. Those awaiting results of the final examination for the 
prescribed qualification are not eligible and hence should not apply. 

1.5 Candidates attempting to apply with minor changes of information and/or facts to more than one RRB and/or 
multiple applications to the same RRB will be summarily rejected and such candidates will be debarred from all 
future examinations of RRB.

1.6 Candidates who have been debarred by any RRB/Railway Recruitment Cell (RRC) either for life or for a 
specified period which is not yet completed should NOT apply for this notification. Their candidature will be 
rejected during any stage of recruitment as and when detected.

1.7 	 Candidates should enter their Name, Father's Name and Date of Birth as recorded in the 
SSLC/Matriculation Certificate only. However, candidates with ITI/NAC qualification alone can enter 
these details as per the ITI/NAC certificates. 

 	 In cases of name change, candidates should indicate their changed Name only in the ONLINE application. 
However, other details should match with the Matriculation or Equivalent certificate. Date of such change (or) 
application for such change should be prior to the date of submission of ONLINE application.

Gazette Notification or any other legal document as applicable for such cases should be submitted at the time 
of Document Verification (DV).

1.8 	 Signatures of the candidates on all documents should be identical, either in English or Hindi, and must be in 
running hand writing and not in block/capital or disjointed letters.  Signatures in different style or language at 
the time of CBT, PET and DV etc.  may result in cancellation of candidature.

1.9  	Dates of examinations will also be published on the websites of participating RRBs. Thereafter, e-Call letters 
for the CBT, PET and DV (as applicable) should be downloaded ONLY from websites of the RRBs concerned. 
The exam centre, date and shift indicated in the call letter shall be final. 

1.10	Vacancies indicated in the CEN are provisional and may increase or decrease or even may become NIL in total 
or in specific communities/posts/units at a later stage depending upon the actual needs of the Railway 
Administration. Also, additional posts if required by the railway(s) may also be included at later stage. RRBs 
reserve the right to introduce additional CBTs and/or PET, additional DV etc. without assigning any reason.

The Railway Administration also reserves the right to cancel the notified vacancies at its discretion and such 
decision will be final and binding on all. In the event of cancellation of notified vacancies, the examination fee 
paid by the candidates will not be refunded except for candidates of exempted categories who have attended 
the examinations. Refer para 7.0 for fee exempted categories.

1.11  On completion of all stages of recruitment process, RRBs shall allot post & Railway as per the option of the 
candidates ONLY subject to merit, medical standard and vacancy position. Once candidates have been 
empanelled as per their merit/choice, they will forfeit the right to be considered for any other post/category. 

However RRBs also reserve the right to allot post/Railway/Unit not opted by the candidates, if considered 
necessary in administrative interest, subject to the candidate(s) meeting the requirements of the post 
concerned.

1.12 	Selection by RRB does not confer upon the candidates any right of appointment in the Railways. The function 
of the RRB is to recommend names of suitable candidates to the concerned authorities of the Zonal Railway 
who in turn issue the offer of appointment letter subject to availability of vacancies and satisfying all eligibility 
criteria including antecedents and character.

1.13	Selected candidates have to execute Security and/or Indemnity Bond wherever necessary.

1.14 	Ordinarily, a Railway servant shall be employed throughout his/her service on the Railway or Railway 
establishment to which he/she is posted on first appointment and shall have no claim as a right for transfer to 
another Railway or another establishment. In the exigencies of service, however, it shall be open to the 
Competent Authority to transfer the railway servant to any other department or Railway or Railway 
establishment including a project in or out of India.

1.15 	Selected candidates who are finally appointed are liable for active service in Railway Engineers' Unit of 
Territorial Army.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 2



1.16	 Free Sleeper Class Railway Pass admissible to SC/ST candidates will be part of e-call letter when they are 
called for various stages of selection viz.  CBT /PET /DV (as applicable) as per the details of valid caste 
certificate furnished in ONLINE application. 

At the time of obtaining reservation and travelling, the Reservation Clerk and/or Ticket Checking Staff will ask 
for the original SC/ST community certificate for verification of genuineness of the candidate. Any attempt to 
misuse this travelling authority shall lead to rejection of candidature at any stage of the selection process 
including debarment for future examinations.

1.17	 RRBs reserve the right to incorporate any subsequent changes/ modifications/ additions in the terms & 
conditions of recruitment under the CEN as necessitated and applicable.

1.18 	RRBs may share, with the consent of the candidates, the scores obtained by them in RRB exams with other 
Ministries/Departments/Public Sector Undertakings (PSU) and Private organizations, for recruitment in their 
organizations. Candidates may give their consent for the same, or otherwise, in the ONLINE application.

1.19	 To avoid last minute rush, candidates are advised in their own interest to submit ONLINE application much 
before the closing date since there may be a possibility of inability/failure to log on to the website of RRB 
concerned on account of heavy load on the internet or website during last days.

	 RRBs do not accept any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their application within the 
last day on account of aforesaid reasons or any other reason.

2.0 	 Vacancies

 	 The RRB wise and Railway wise summary of vacancies for various posts is furnished below for immediate 
reference. Further, the parameters(Qualification, Medical standard and Suitability of the post for PWD etc) of 
various posts included in the CEN is at Annexure A and the RRB, Railway and post wise vacancy for all the 
notified posts is at Annexure B.  

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018

RRB Wise Railway Wise Summary of Vacancies

Sl.
No.

RRB Rly UR OBC Total
Ex
SMSC ST

VH OH HH

1 Ahmedabad WR 3056 901 477 1653 6087 1216 1216 1 95 175

2 Ajmer NWR 2493 704 360 1198 4755 860 860 0 9 1

3 Allahabad NCR 2533 736 352 1141 4762 952 952 0 15 4

13 Mumbai CR 2321 675 393 1236 4625 924 924 5 47 45

783 305 0 3 0245 158 346 1532 3056 Bhubhaneshwar

WCR 1772 702 0 1 0493 296 961 3522 7025 Bhopal

7 Bilaspur SECR 587 232 0 2232168 87 317 1159

8 Chandigarh NR 3955 1547 18 1115471174 590

11 Guwahati NFR 1304 515 0 0 8515384 193 696 2577

10 Gorakhpur NER 1686 676 0 5 3676500 276 926 3388

 9 Chennai SR 1550 597 0 12 8597332 666 2979

ECOR

CC
AA **

2

02113 7832

12 Kolkata ER 1155 473 0 0 1473355 203 654 2367

15 Ranchi SER 1240 503 0 0 0503426 197 662 2525

 4 Bangalore SWR 1184 457 13 8457346 167 596 2293 3

431

16 Secunderabad SCR 3254 1288 53 71 7112881016 530 1723 6523

31889 12445 62 316 351 *9453 5061 16502 12445

14 Patna ECR 3016 899 450 1614 5981 1198 1198 0 25 14 *

62907

    *  : Includes 2 HH backlog vacancies
   ** : Vacancies under CCAA are applicable to Apprentices trained in Railway Establishments only.

3



3.0	   MEDICAL STANDARDS FOR THE POSTS
	  Candidates called for DV will have to pass requisite medical fitness test(s) conducted by the Railway 

Administration to ensure that the candidates are medically fit to carry out the duties connected with 
the post(s) opted by them. Visual Acuity Standard is one of the important criteria of medical fitness of 
railway staff. The medical requirements against different medical standards for different categories 
are outlined below:

 Note: The above medical standards are indicative and not exhaustive and apply to candidates in 
general.   The candidates are advised to read Chapter 5 of Indian Railway Medical 
Manual Vol.I which can be accessed at www.indianrailways.gov.in. Candidates who have 
undergone Lasik surgery or any other surgery procedure to correct refractory error are not 
eligible for the post having Medical Standards A2, B1 and B2. 

   	 Different Medical standards shall apply to Ex-Servicemen as detailed in Para 534 of Indian 
Ra i lway  Med ica l  Manua l  ( I R M M) Vo lume I ,  wh ich  may be  accessed a t 
www.indianrailways.gov.in .

	 Important 

Candidates are advised to ensure that they are eligible as per the medical standards for the 
posts opted by them. Those who are opting for A2 medical standard posts may note that 
these posts have stringent medical standard and hence they are specifically advised to 
ensure that their fitness both in terms of vision as well as physical standards is as per the 
prescribed requirements in the medical manual indicated above.

4.0	 NATIONALITY/CITIZENSHIP:

  (i) 	A candidate must be either:

a. a citizen of India, or

b. a subject of Nepal, or

c. a subject of Bhutan, or

d. a Tibetan refugee who came over to India, before the 1st January, 1962 with the intention of 
permanently settling in India, or

e. a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka, East African 
Countries of Kenya, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi, Zaire, Ethiopia 
and Vietnam with the intention of permanently settling in India.

f. Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b), (c), (d) and (e) above shall be a person in 
whose favor a certificate of eligibility has been issued by the Government of India.

 (ii) 	A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be admitted to the 
examination but the offer of appointment may be given only after the necessary eligibility certificate 
has been issued to him by the Government of India.

GENERAL
FITNESS

VISUAL ACUITY

1 A-2

2 B-1

3 B-2

4 C-1

Distant Vision: 6/9, 6/9 without glasses (No fogging test)  
Near Vision: Sn. 0.6,0.6 without glasses and must pass tests for Colour 
Vision, Binocular Vision, Night Vision, Mesopic Vision etc

Distant Vision: 6/9, 6/12 with or without glasses (power of lenses not to 
exceed 4D) Near Vision: Sn. 0.6, 0.6 with or without glasses when 
reading or close work is required and must pass test for Colour Vision, 
Binocular Vision, Night Vision, Mesopic Vision etc

Distant Vision: 6/9, 6/12 with or without glasses (power of lenses not to 
exceed 4D). Near Vision: Sn. 0.6, 0.6 with or without glasses when 
reading or close work is required and must pass test for Binocular Vision 
etc

Distant Vision: 6/12, 6/18 with or without glasses. Near Vision: Sn. 0.6, 
0.6 with or without glasses when reading or close work is required.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 4



5.0	 AGE LIMIT: 18 to 31 years.

	 The lower and upper age limit indicated for a particular post(s) in the vacancy table will be reckoned as 
on 01.07.2018.

5.1	 The relaxation in upper age limit / maximum upper age for the following categories/communities in the 
table below is applicable subject to submission of requisite certificates.

COMMUNITY/CATEGORIES
RELAXATION IN UPPER AGE LIMIT

(OR)
MAXIMUM UPPER AGE

SC/ST candidates 5 Years

OBC-Non Creamy Layer candidates 3 Years

Ex-Servicemen candidates who have put in not less than 
6 months continuous service after attestation

Up to the extent of service rendered 
in Defence plus 3 years 

Persons With Disabilities (PWD) UR 10 Years

PWD OBC-Non Creamy Layer

PWD SC/ST

13 Years

15 Years

Candidates ordinarily  been domiciled in the State of Jammu & 
Kashmir during the period from 01.01.1980 to 31.12.1989

5 Years

Candidates who are serving Group 'C' 
and Erstwhile Group 'D' Railway Staff, 
Casual Labour and Substitutes in 
Railways who have put in  minimum of 
3 years service (continuous or in 
broken spells) 

40 Years of ageUR

OBC- Non Creamy
Layer

SC/ST

43 Years of age

45 Years of age

Candidates who are working in Quasi-Administrative offices of the 
Railway organization such as Railway Canteens, Co-operative 
Societies and Institutes

Up to the length of service rendered 
(or) 5 Years, whichever is lower.

Women candidates, who are widowed, 
divorced or judicially separated from 
husband but not remarried.

35 Years of ageUR

OBC-NCL 
(Non Creamy Layer)

SC/ST

38 Years of age

40 Years of age

Course Completed Act Apprentices applying for the  posts for 
which minimum qualification is ITI/Course Completed Act 
Apprenticeship.

Shall be relaxed to the extent of 
Apprentice Training undergone by 
them under the Apprentice Act 1961. 

Candidates who have commenced
Act Apprentice under the Apprenticeship 
Act before attaining the age of 25 years

Sl.
No.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

35 Years of ageUR

OBC-NCL 
(Non Creamy Layer)

SC/ST

38 Years of age

40 Years of age

5.2  Date of birth of candidates should be between the dates given below: (Both dates inclusive) 

Sl
No

Age
Group

Upper limit of
 Date of Birth 

(Not earlier than)

Lower limit of 
Date of Birth

(Not later than)  
Remarks*

1 18 to 31

UR
OBC-Non 

Creamy Layer SC/ST
For all community / 

categories
Candidates  be long ing  to 
community/categories in the 
table at para 5.1 shall be eligible 
for age relaxation as applicable. 
Note. The date of birth limits for 
SC/ST & OBC-NCL given in 
this table includes community 
age relaxation.

02.07.1987 02.07.1984 02.07.1982 01.07.2000

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 5



 *If a candidate is eligible for relaxation of age on more than one ground, he/she would be accorded the 
highest of the age relaxations (not cumulative) for which he/she is eligible.

5.3	 No age relaxation is allowed to SC/ST/OBC-NCL (Non Creamy Layer) candidates applying against 
unreserved vacancies. 

5.4 	 PWD candidates applying against UR vacancies will be allowed age relaxation applicable for UR PWD only.

        NOTE: Candidates should note that the date of birth filled in this application should be same as recorded in the 
Matriculation /SSLC or an equivalent certificate. No subsequent request for its change will be considered.  

6.0	 EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS:

	 Candidates should have the Educational/Technical qualifications indicated against the notified posts in the 
CEN from recognized Board/NCVT/SCVT as on the closing date for submission of the ONLINE application. 
Refer to Annexure-A for the prescribed qualification against each of the posts. Those awaiting results of the 
final examination of the prescribed educational/technical qualification SHOULD NOT apply. 

	 Diploma/Degree in Engineering will not be accepted in lieu of course completed Act Apprenticeship / 
ITI. Also, Graduate Act Apprentice will not be accepted in lieu of Course Completed Act 
Apprenticeship.

  
7.0	 EXAMINATION FEE

	 Candidates applying for the posts in this CEN have to pay the prescribed fee as per their category detailed 

7.1	 MODES OF PAYMENT OF FEE:

a. ONLINE fee payment through internet banking or debit/credit cards upto 12.03.2018 till 22.00 Hrs. 

b. OFFLINE fee payment through

i. SBI Bank Challan Payment mode closes on 12.03.2018 at 13.00 Hrs in any branch of SBI.

ii. Post Office Challan Payment mode closes on 10.03.2018 at 13.00 Hrs in any branch of computerized 
Post Office.

All applicable service charges shall be borne by the candidate. If the fee is paid through off line mode viz (b) i & ii 
above, the receipt should be preserved. The same should be produced on demand at the time of DV. 

7.2	 Minorities include Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Zoroastrians (Parsis) subject to 
revision/deletion/inclusion if any received till the closing date of this CEN. 

Minority candidates claiming waiver of examination fee will be required to furnish, at the time of DV, 'Minority 
Community Declaration' affidavit on non-judicial stamp paper that they belong to any of the above minority 
communities, failing which their candidature will be rejected.

7.3	 Economically Backward Class (EBC) candidates are those whose annual family income is less than ₹. 50,000/. 
Such candidates should have valid income certificate in the prescribed format or on the letterhead of the 
Issuing Authority to this effect and submit the same at the time of DV. Candidates having BPL card and Izzat 
MST are also eligible for fee concession under EBC and all these candidates seeking fee concession should fill 
in the relevant details in the ONLINE application.

7.4	 Candidates eligible for refund of examination fee of ₹250/- should provide details of beneficiary account in 
which they would like to receive the refund viz., Beneficiary name, Bank Name, Account No. and IFSC code in 
the online application the refund of fee will be made duly deducting the bank charges on appearing in the CBT.

8.0   	VERTICAL RESERVATION

8.1	 This CEN provides for Vertical Reservation for Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Other 
Backward Class (OBC)- Non Creamy Layer(NCL), wherever applicable and admissible, and as 
communicated by the Indenting Railways under extant rules, as mentioned in the vacancy table.

8.2 	 All candidates, irrespective of community may be considered against UR vacancies, subject to fulfillment of 
parameters for UR candidates. However against the vacancies earmarked for specific communities 
(SC/ST/OBC-NCL), only candidates belonging to that community will be considered. 

Candidate Categories Fee

1 For all candidates except the fee concession categories mentioned below  at Sl No 2    ` 500/-

2 ` 250/-*
For Candidates belonging to SC / ST / Ex-Serviceman / PWDs / Female / Transgender / 
Minorities / Economically backward class.
*This fee of  ̀  250 shall be refunded duly deducting bank charges, on appearing in CBT.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 6



8.3 	 For availing reservation, SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates should furnish at the time of document verification Caste 
Certificate from competent authorities as per the format given at Annexure-I (for SC/ST candidates) and Annexure-II (for 
OBC-NCL candidates). 

 In case of OBC-NCL candidates, the certificates should specifically indicate that the candidate does not belong to the 
Persons/Sections (Creamy Layer) mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule of the Government of India, Department of 
Personnel and Training O.M.No.36012/22/93-Estt. (SCT) dated 08.09.93 & its subsequent revision through 
O.M.No.36033/3/2004-Estt. (Res) dated 09.03.2004, 27.05.2013, 13.09.2017 and further revision if any received till the 
closing date of this Centralized Employment Notice. The candidate should ensure that he/she belong to the OBC- Non 
Creamy Layer category while applying for the posts against this notification. Such candidate should produce a valid OBC 
certificate in the prescribed format during DV. Further, in addition to the community certificate (OBC), a declaration in the 
prescribed format has to be furnished by the candidate during DV, that he/she does not belong to the creamy layer. 
Otherwise, their claim for reserved status (OBC-NCL) will not be entertained and the candidature / application of such 
candidates, if fulfilling all the eligibility conditions for General (Un-reserved) category, will be considered under General 
(UR) vacancy only. 

8.4 	 Candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC-NCL who fulfill required Educational Qualification/Technical Qualifications can also 
apply against UR vacancies. 

 They will however, have to compete with the UR candidates and will not be eligible for any relaxation including age to such 
SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates applying against UR vacancies. However, candidates have to indicate their actual 
community in the application.

8.5    	Community status as on the closing date of CEN shall only be considered for availing reservation benefits if eligible and 
any change in the community status of the candidate thereafter shall not be entertained.

9.0	 HORIZONTAL RESERVATION: 

9.1 	 This CEN provides for horizontal reservation for Ex-Servicemen (ExSM), Course Completed Act Apprentices (CCAA) 
trained in Railway Establishments  and Person With Disabilities(PWD) irrespective of their community. 

9.2 	 Vacancies for ExSM, CCAA trained in Railway Establishments and PWD wherever given in the vacancy table are not 
separate but are included in the total number of vacancies. 

9.3 	 Wherever vacancies for PWD are shown separately without any community wise allotment, those vacancies are separate 
and not part of regular vacancies.

9.4 	 ExSM candidates may also apply against regular vacancies of any post(s) without separate earmarked ExSM vacancies. 
Even for these posts, they are eligible for age relaxation and fee exemption.

9.5 	 PWD candidates may also apply against regular vacancies of any post(s) without separate earmarked PWD vacancies 
but the post must have been identified as suitable for their disability. Even for these posts, they are eligible for age 
relaxation and fee exemption.

9.6  	 In case of Persons with Disability (PWD), if vacancies reserved for them cannot be filled due to non-availability of suitable 
candidates under that category of Disability or for any other sufficient reason, such vacancy/vacancies shall not be filled 
and shall be carried forward as backlog vacancy.

	 However, for the backlog vacancies indicated in the CEN, if candidates of specified disability for which vacancies are 
indicated, are not available, these can be filled by candidates of other disabilities for which the post is suitable. In case of 
non-availability of any PWD candidates, the post will be filled by regular (those who are not PWD) candidates. 

9.7	 CCAA candidates trained in Railway Establishments may also apply against vacancies of any post(s) without separate 
earmarked CCAA vacancies. Even for these posts, they are eligible for age relaxation.

10.0      EX-SERVICEMAN

10.1	 The term Ex-Serviceman means a person who has served in any rank (whether as a Combatant or non-Combatant) in the 
regular Army, Navy or Air Force of the Indian Union but does not include a person who has served in the Defence Security 
Corps., the General Reserve Engineering Force, the Lok Sahayak Sena and the Para Military Forces

                                                           and

a. Who either has been retired or relieved or discharged from such service whether at his own request or being relieved by 
the employer after earning his or her pension; (or)

b. Who has been relieved from such service on medical grounds attributable to military service or circumstances beyond 
his control and awarded medical or other disability pension; (or)

c. who has been released from such service as a result of reduction in establishment; (or)

d. Who has been released from such service after completing the specific period of engagement, otherwise than on his 
own request, or by way of dismissal, or discharge on account of misconduct or inefficiency and has been given a gratuity; 
and includes personnel of the Territorial Army, namely, pension holders for continuous embodied service or broken 
spells of qualifying service;(or) 

e. Personnel of Army Postal Service who are part of Regular Army and retired from the Army Postal Service without 
reversion to their parent service with pension, or are released from the Army Postal Service on medical grounds 
attributable to or aggravated by military service or circumstances beyond their control and awarded medical or other 
disability pension; (or) 

f. Personnel who were on deputation in Army Postal Service for more than six months prior to 14th April 1987; (or)

g. Gallantry award winners of the Armed forces including personnel of Territorial Army; or

h.  Ex-recruits boarded out or relieved on medical ground and granted medical disability pension w.e.f. 01.02.2006.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 7



10.2  	Persons serving in the Armed Forces of the Union, who on retirement from service would come under the 

category of Ex-Servicemen are eligible to apply for re-employment one year before the completion of the 

specific terms of engagement and avail themselves of all concessions available to Ex- Servicemen but such 

persons shall not be permitted to leave the uniform until they complete the specific terms of engagement in the 

Armed Forces of the Union. 
 Accordingly, such serving Defence personnel to be released within one year of the last date of the CEN (on or 

before 12.03.2019) can also apply, both for vacancies earmarked for Ex-Servicemen and for posts not 

reserved for them.
10.3 	Ex-Servicemen candidates who have already secured Civil employment under Central Government in Group 

'C' & 'D' after availing of the benefits given to Ex-Servicemen will be permitted only the benefit of age relaxation 

as prescribed for Ex - Servicemen for securing another Civil employment in a higher grade or cadre in Group 

'C/D' under Central Government. Such candidates will not be considered against the vacancies reserved for 

Ex - Servicemen in the Central Government jobs. 
10.4 	 If an Ex-Serviceman applies for various vacancies before joining any Civil employment, he/she can avail the 

benefit of reservation as Ex - Serviceman for any subsequent employment, subject to the condition that an Ex - 

Serviceman as soon as he joins any Civil employment, should give self declaration/undertaking to the 

concerned employer about the details of application against this CEN. The acknowledged copy of this 

declaration along with NOC from the civil employer should be produced during DV failing which their 

candidature shall stand cancelled. Further, this benefit would be available only in respect of vacancies which 

are filled on direct recruitment and wherever reservation is applicable to the Ex - Servicemen. 
10.5 	The Medical standard of Ex-Serviceman will be according to para 534 of Indian Railway Medical Manual 

(IRMM) Volume I, which may be accessed at www.indianrailways.gov.in.

11.0	 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES (PWD)
11.1	 The suitability or otherwise of a post for PWD has been indicated against each post, under the column 

“Suitability for Persons with Disability” with details of sub disability in Annexure A.
11.2	 Definitions of Disabilities: Definitions of categories of disabilities for the purpose of recruitment are given 

below:  (a) Blindness: 'Blindness' refers to a condition where a person suffers from any of the following 

conditions, namely: (i) Total absence of sight; or (ii) Visual acuity not exceeding 6/60 or 20/200 (snellen) in the 

better eye with correcting lens; (iii) Limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of 20 degrees or worse; 

(b) Low vision: "Person with low vision" means a person with impairment of visual functioning even after 

treatment or standard refractive correction but who uses or is potentially capable of using vision for the 

planning or execution of a task with appropriate assistive device. (c) Hearing impairment means loss of sixty 

decibels or more in the better ear in the conversational range of frequencies. It will also include persons who 

are deaf and dumb. (d) Loco Motor disability: "Loco Motor disability" means disability of the bones, joints or 

muscles leading to substantial restriction of the movement of the limbs or any form of cerebral palsy. (e) 

Cerebral Palsy: "Cerebral Palsy” means a group of non-progressive conditions of a person characterized by 

abnormal motor control posture resulting from brain insult or injuries occurring in the pre-natal, peri-natal or 

infant period of development (f) All the cases of orthopedically handicapped persons would be covered under 

the category of "Loco Motor disability or cerebral palsy."
11.3.	DEGREE OF DISABILITY FOR RELAXATION AND COMPETENT AUTHORITY FOR ISSUE OF 

DISABILITY CERTIFICATE: Only such persons would be eligible for relaxation of conditions in respective 

community in services/posts who suffer from not less than 40 percent of relevant disability. A person who wants 

to avail the benefit of relaxation will have to submit a Disability Certificate issued by a Competent Authority, as 

per proforma at Annexure-V(A), V(B) & V(C) {Form II, III or IV as applicable as prescribed in Para 14 of 

“Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Amendment Rules, 

2009”)} at the time of DV.
11.4	 Assistance of Scribe: Visually Handicapped (VH) candidates / candidates whose writing speed is affected by 

Cerebral Palsy / candidates with one arm / candidates with muscular weakness can avail the assistance of 

SCRIBE for writing answers on their behalf. For engaging the scribe, candidates will have to indicate the same 

while filling ONLINE form. Engagement of SCRIBE will be subject to the following conditions:

a. Candidates will have to arrange for the scribe on their own.
b. Separate e-admit card will be issued to scribe accompanying the candidates.
c. The candidate shall be responsible for any misconduct on the part of the scribe brought by him/her during 

the examination. 
d. The scribe so arranged should not himself/herself be the candidate for the notification for which the 

candidate is appearing. Also, same scribe should not be engaged for more than one candidate and to this 

effect the Scribe and the Candidate shall give a declaration. Any violation, if detected at any stage will render 

both candidate & scribe disqualified.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 8



Candidates opting for scribe will have to provide additional details as per Annexure-V(D) for Scribe during 

submission of ONLINE application form, so that RRBs can issue e-admit card for Scribes and the same shall 

be signed by both Candidate and Scribe. Change of Scribe is not permissible at the exam venue and hence it is 

the responsibility of the candidate to ensure availability of Scribe for the exam. However, under exceptional 

circumstances, the change may be allowed duly recording reasons and filling the relevant details including 

photograph of the Scribe. 

Candidates availing the assistance of a Scribe shall be eligible for compensatory time of 20 minutes for every 

hour of examination.	

11.5	 All one eyed candidates and candidates whose visual degree of disability is less than 40% shall not be 

considered as Visually Handicapped persons and the provision for engaging Scribe shall not be applicable to 

them.
11.6 	Selected PWD candidates will be subjected to medical examination by Railway Medical Authorities at the time 

of appointment and only those conforming to the medical standards as laid down in the Indian Railway Medical 

Manual and other extant provisions, as the case may be, will be eligible for appointment.
11.7  	When vacancies are reserved for PWDs and full panel for PWDs cannot be made with the minimum qualifying 

percentage marks of each category, viz., UR, SC, ST, OBC-NCL, a relaxation of up to 2% marks in the 

minimum qualifying marks prescribed for the community will be allowed. 

12.0	 RAILWAY ACT APPRENTICES 

12.1	 The vacancies to be filled from among the Course Completed Act Apprentices (CCAAs) trained in Railway 

Establishments and possessing National Apprenticeship Certificate (NAC) granted by National Council of 

Vocational Training (NCVT) is separately indicated in the vacancy table.   This will be in the nature of horizontal 

reservation as in the case of persons with disabilities (PWDs) and Ex-Servicemen.  However, unlike in the case 

of PWDs, there will be no carry forward of the unfilled vacancies, to be filled by this mechanism.  In case of 

shortfall, the vacant slots shall be filled from others in the combined merit list.

12.2	 The last date for submission of application against this CEN shall be the cut off date for completion of 

Apprenticeship. A candidate shall be considered to have completed the Act Apprenticeship training, only if he 

has appeared in the NCVT examination  before the last date of CEN and result for which might not have been 

declared. However, the candidate should submit the NAC certificate issued by NCVT during document 

verification failing which he shall not be eligible for reservation as CCAA  (trained in Railway Establishments) 

under this provision.

12.3	 The course completed Act Apprentices will be eligible to apply for any RRB irrespective of the Railway 

Establishment in which they have been trained subject to fulfilling other eligibility conditions. 

Special Note for all Candidates seeking reservation/relaxation benefits: 

All those candidates seeking reservation/relaxation benefits avai lable for SC/ST/OBC-

NCL/PWD/ExSM/CCAA (trained in Railway Establishments) must ensure that they are entitled to such 

reservation/relaxation as per eligibility prescribed in the Rules/CEN.  They should be in possession of all the 

requisite certificates in the prescribed format in support of their claim as stipulated in the Rules/CEN. 

13.0	 NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE  (NOC)
	 Candidates serving (including those undergoing induction training/probation) in any Central/State 

Government Department including Railways or Public Sector Undertakings may apply directly to the RRBs 

duly informing their Employer. Shortlisted candidates should produce NOC from the employer on the date of 

his/her DV failing which their candidature will be cancelled.
	 NOTE: Candidates should note that in case a communication is received from their employer by the RRB 

concerned withholding permission to the candidates applying for/appearing at the examination, their 

application/candidature will be liable to be rejected /cancelled.

14.0 	RECRUITMENT PROCESS
 	 Only single online application has to be submitted by the candidate to the RRB of their choice for all the notified 

posts of that RRB through the link provided on the official website. 
The entire recruitment process shall involve a Computer Based Test(CBT), Physical Efficiency Test (PET) and 

Document Verification.
The date, time and venue for all the activities, namely, CBT, PET and DV or any other additional activity as 

applicable shall be fixed by the RRBs and shall be intimated to the eligible candidates in due course. Request 

for postponement of any of the above activity or for change of venue, date and shift will not be entertained under 

any circumstances. 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 9



Male Candidates Female Candidates

Should be able to lift and carry 35 kg of weight 

for a distance of 100 metres in 2 minutes in one 

chance without putting the weight down
and

Should be able to lift and carry 20 kg of weight 
for a distance of 100 metres in 2 minutes in 
one chance without putting the weight down

and

Should be able to run for a distance of 1000 
metres in 4 minutes and 15 seconds in one 
chance.

Should be able to run for a distance of 1000 
metres in 5 minutes and 40 seconds in one 
chance.

 

14.1  Computer Based Test

All the eligible candidates have to undergo a Computer Based Test on the specified date, time and 
venue as per the e-call letter to be downloaded by the candidates from the websites of RRBs. The 
information about the e-call letter download shall be communicated through the websites as well as 
personal email communication to the candidates.

	 Total Duration  : 90 Min, 

No of Questions: 100 

Minimum percentage of marks for eligibility in various categories: UR -40%, OBC-30%, SC-30%, ST-
30%. These percentage of marks for eligibility may be relaxed by 2% for PWD candidates in case of 
shortage of PWD candidates against vacancies reserved for them. 

Question Type and Syllabus:

The Questions will be of objective type with multiple choices and are likely to include questions 
pertaining to:

a.  Mathematics 

Number system, BODMAS, Decimals, Fractions, LCM, HCF, Ratio and Proportion, Percentages, 
Mensuration, Time and Work; Time and Distance, Simple and Compound Interest, Profit and Loss, 
Algebra, Geometry and Trigonometry, Elementary Statistics, Square root, Age Calculations, 
Calendar & Clock, Pipes & Cistern etc.

b.  General Intelligence and reasoning 

 Analogies, Alphabetical and Number Series, Coding and Decoding, Mathematical operations, 
Relationships, Syllogism, Jumbling, Venn Diagram, Data Interpretation and Sufficiency, 
Conclusions and Decision making, Similarities and Differences, Analytical Reasoning, 
Classification, Directions, Statement – Arguments and  Assumptions etc.

c.  General Science
thThe syllabus under this shall cover Physics, Chemistry and Life Sciences of 10  standard level.

d. General Awareness on current affairs in Science & Technology, Sports, Culture, Personalities, 
Economics, Politics and any other subjects of importance.

 

14.2	PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TESTS (PET)

	 Based on the merit of the candidates in the CBT, candidates shall be called for PET Two times the 
community wise total vacancy of the Posts notified against RRBs. However, Railways reserve the 
right to increase/decrease this limit as required to ensure availability of adequate candidates for all the 
notified posts. Passing Physical Efficiency Test (PET) is mandatory and the same will be qualifying in 
nature. The criterion for PET is as under:

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018

Note: The persons with disabilities as specified in Para 11.0 are exempted from appearing for PET. 
However, after qualifying in the CBT, such candidates will have to pass the medical examination prescribed for 
Persons with Disabilities. 

10



14.3	Document Verification and Empanelling of Candidates

Based on the performance of candidates in the CBT subject to their qualifying in PET, candidates  will 
be called for document verification. 

In case of two or more candidates securing same marks, their merit position shall be determined by 
age criteria i.e., older person shall be given higher seniority.

Appointment of selected candidates is subject to their passing requisite Medical Fitness Test to be 
conducted by the Railway Administration, final verification of educational and community certificates 
and verification of antecedents/character of the candidates.

Candidates may please note that RRBs only recommend names of the empanelled candidates and 
appointment is offered ONLY by the respective Railway Administrations.

15.0	HOW TO APPLY

Candidates can apply for vacancies of any one RRB only through ONLINE application mode by 
visiting the official website of RRBs listed at Para 20.0. 

a) Read all the Information and Instructions detailed in the CEN thoroughly before starting the 
filling up of application by clicking the CEN 2/2018 Link on the RRB website. It is essential that 
the candidate understands all information of the notification correctly to prevent any mistakes 
while filling application.

b) Scanned documents JPEG format to be kept ready before filling the application

In order to ensure speedy filling up of application by the candidates, they should keep the following 
documents ready in digital form before logging in to the application page.

Candidate Photograph in color: JPEG image of size 20 to 50KB

SC/ST Certificate (Only for candidates seeking free travel pass): JPEG image of size 50 to 
100KB

Scribe Photograph in color (Wherever applicable): JPEG image of size 20 to 50KB

c) Check RRB Wise Vacancies for the qualification and Reservation Category of the 
candidate: The candidates are advised to check the Vacancy Table in this CEN to ascertain the 
vacancies notified against all RRBs for their qualification and ensure that the RRB to which they 
wish to fill in the online application is having vacancy for their qualification and 
community/category subject to eligibility in terms of age and medical standards. 

Further for identifying RRB wise vacancies dynamically as per their eligibility Click on the CEN 
2/2018 Vacancy table and follow as below:

i) First table shows the RRB wise summary of vacancy of posts to have a glimpse of vacancy 
scenario in all RRBs.

ii) Further to ascertain the comprehensive details of vacancy of all the posts notified against an 
RRB, candidate may select the RRB from the drop down list of RRBs from search menu and can 
view the vacancies of all the notified posts against the Railway attached to that RRB. 

iii)  After scrutinizing the vacancy details, candidates may decide the RRB for which they wish to 
apply duly ensuring that vacancy exists for their qualification and community/PWD/ExSM 
category. Once the RRB has been selected and registration is completed, change of RRB 
will not be permitted under any circumstances. 

Candidates are further advised to visit website(s) of RRBs frequently to get the latest 
information on various stages of recruitment process or any changes about this notification. 

The onus is on the candidates to prove with valid documents that all the information submitted by 
them in the ONLINE application is true.

CANDIDATES PLEASE NOTE:

Candidates are advised to keep their personal mobile number and personal valid e-mail active 
throughout the recruitment process, as all communications from RRBs will be only through 
SMS/email. RRBs will not entertain any request for change of mobile number and e-mail address at 
any stage.

Candidates are advised to note and preserve their Registration Number for further stages of 
recruitment process / correspondence with RRB concerned.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 11



 

15.1 STEPS TO SUBMIT ONLINE APPLICATION

After completing the process at para 15 a, b, & c above, click on the “New Registration” link on the 
home page of the Online Registration portal of CEN 2/2018 for the recruitment of various posts in 
Level 1 of 7th CPC Pay matrix and carry out the following:-

a. Confirm that you have read and understood the instructions clearly by clicking the check box.

b. Select the RRB to which you would like to apply. Please be aware that, RRB once selected cannot 
be changed after registration.

c. Registration Details: Enter your name, Date of Birth and Father's name as per para 1.7 of General 
Instruction, Mother's name, Aadhar number, State, SSLC/Matric Roll number, Year of passing 
SSLC/MATRIC, mobile number and email-id and then submit for registration. Candidates with 
ITI/NAC qualification alone can enter Roll number/year of passing for ITI/NAC qualification instead 
of SSLC/Matric. Before submitting for registration, ensure and confirm that all the information 
furnished above are correct as the details furnished for registration cannot be changed later. Please 
note that the email ID used for the registration must be yours and unique. Also note that both the 
email and mobile number will be verified during the Online application process with an OTP.

d. Verification of email ID and mobile number through OTP : On submitting the Registration details, an 
OTP will be sent to your email and another OTP to your mobile number. Click on the “Verify through 
OTP” link on the Home page of the online registration portal and enter the OTP received on your 
email and the OTP received on your mobile in the respective fields. You can proceed with the 
registration only by entering both the OTPs,  Hence it is advised to ensure that the email id and 
mobile number is entered correctly during the Registration.  

On verification of  both the email id and mobile number, an unique registration number is generated 
for the candidate. Candidate should note and preserve their registration number for later reference 
during the recruitment process and RRB will not entertain any request seeking registration number. 
Candidates can proceed with the online application by clicking on the “Candidate Login” link on the 
home page using the registration number. 

e. In the Part 1 of application page, provide the details of Educational qualification, Community, 
Gender, Religion, ExSM, PWD, CCAA, Minority, Economically backward class, Age relaxation 
eligibility category as applicable and other details.

f. On completion of application details as above, the candidate will be directed to the payment page to 
choose payment mode i.e Bank(online-net banking/credit card/debit card & offline-Challan) or Post 
Office- Challan  as explained in para 7.1 and complete the payment process. Please note the last 
date and time specified for each mode of payment and submit the application well in time. 

g. In case of online payment, you will be automatically directed to Part II of application for filling up 
additional details. Those paying through Bank-offline mode, the payment confirmation may take 
about an hour and hence they have to again login after 60 minutes and look for confirmation of 
payment status. The time period for payment confirmation shall vary from 24hrs to 48 hrs in case of 
Post Office payment. On getting the confirmation status, the candidate can start filling Part II of the 
application.

Candidates eligible for examination fee refund should provide the details of beneficiary account in which they 
would like to receive the refund viz. Beneficiary name, Bank name, Account Number and IFSC Code in the 
online application. 

h. In the Part II application page, fill in details of:

 Set priority / preferences for posts: If the candidate is eligible for more than one post based on his 
educational qualification and other details furnished, he/she must set the priority/preferences for 
the posts. The list of posts (in the selected RRB) for which a candidate is eligible will be displayed. 
The candidates can set their priority/preferences by clicking on the “Set Priority” button for the 
various posts that they are eligible for, in the RRB they are applying to. The candidates can fill in the 
preferences for all the posts listed, or a few of them as per their choice. But at least one preference 
must be given. 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 12



 

Ø Scribe (Applicable to eligible PWD Candidates only): Provide details of scribe duly uploading 
his/her passport size photograph. Furnishing of information of Scribe is mandatory. Change of 
Scribe at the exam venue is generally not permitted. However, under exceptional circumstances 
the change may be allowed duly recording reasons and filling the relevant details including 
photograph of the scribe. 

Ø Detailed Educational Qualification: Furnish all the relevant information on the qualification as 
required in the application. 

Ø Choice of Exam Language: English is the default language. In case the candidate wishes to 
choose any other language, then the same can be selected in addition from the drop down 
list of languages as per Table at para 20.0. In case of any difference between English and the 
opted language, the content of English version shall prevail.

Ø Complete the balance fields e.g. mother tongue, address etc.      

i. Uploading of color Photograph: Select the Upload Photo tab and upload your colour photograph. 
The photograph should comply with the following requirements,

ꞏ The Colour passport photograph with white/light color back ground. 

ꞏ Photograph of size 35mmX45mm with name and date printed on it.

ꞏ It should be in JPG/JPEG format scanned with 100 DPI.

ꞏ The size of the photograph should be between 20-50 KB

ꞏ The color photograph must have been taken on or after 01-12-2017 in a professional 
studio. Photographs taken using mobile and self composed portraits may result in 
rejection of application.

ꞏ The photo should have clear front view of the candidate without cap and sunglasses. 

ꞏ The face should occupy at least 50% of the area of the photograph with a full face view looking at 
the camera directly. 

ꞏ The main features of the face must not be covered by hair of the head, any cloth or any shadow.

ꞏ Fore head, eyes, nose and chin should be clearly visible.

ꞏ In case the candidate wears glass, then the photograph should not have any glare on glasses.

ꞏ The Photograph must match with the candidate appearance on the day of various stages of 
recruitment process viz. CBTs, PET  and DV. 

ꞏ PWD candidates should also upload passport photograph as per above specifications only and 
not the full body photograph used in the disability certificate.

j. Candidates are advised to keep at least 12 (Twelve) copies of the same photograph for further use 
as and when required during the recruitment process. 

k. Candidates belonging to SC/ST have to upload scanned copy of their SC/ST certificates 
(JPG/JPEG format, 50kb – 100kb) also for availing the facility of free travel authority (Second 
Class Railway Pass).

l. Candidates may give their consent for sharing the scores obtained by them in RRB exams with 
other Ministries/Departments/PSUs and Private organizations, for recruitment in their 
organizations.

m.In the end candidates have to confirm the declaration “I hereby declare that I have gone through the 
eligibility criteria for the post(s) applied for and meet all the requirements therein, that all the details 
furnished by me in the application are true and complete to the best of my knowledge & belief and 
nothing has been concealed or suppressed. I also understand that in case, any of the details 
furnished is found untrue during any stage of recruitment or thereafter Railway Administration shall 
disqualify me for the post(s) applied for and /or I shall be liable for any other action under the extant 
rules”. After confirming the above declaration and submission of the application, the entire 
application shall be displayed for confirmation once again and on confirmation, the candidate may 
take the print of the application and preserve it for reference and record. 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 13



15.2     MODIFICATION OF APPLICATION

a. After final submission of ONLINE application, in case the candidates wish to make minor changes to correct 
inadvertent errors in the application, the correction of data other than RRB, registration number, mobile 
number and email id can be done by paying the modification fee of Rs.250/-(Non Refundable). The 
modification fee shall be applicable to all candidates including fee concession categories and this fee is not 
refundable for any category. The modification to the registration and application details can be done twice 
only.

b. Candidates are cautioned to ensure that if they wish to modify their application, they are advised to do the 
same sufficiently well in advance of the closing date and time of the CEN. In case, due to last minute 
congestion, if the modifications attempt fails at any stage, and the modification carried out have not been 
saved or not submitted in time, the earlier information furnished in the application shall be considered and no 
correspondence on this subject shall be entertained. Please note that the candidate has to check the data in 
all stages of his online application process, including his post preferences during modification, as the 
candidate's eligibility for the posts may change based on the data he has modified. Unless the candidate 
completes the final submission in the Modification process, the earlier information furnished in the 
application shall be considered and no correspondence on this subject shall be entertained.

c. The Registration number, Selected RRB, email id and mobile number cannot be changed.

d. The procedure for modification of the application shall be as below

i. Click on the 'Modify Application' link on the home page of the Online registration portal of CEN 02/2018. 

ii. Login using Registration Number and Password.

iii. Pay modification fee through any of the modes available for actual examination fee payment. Ensure 
payment is done well within the date and time prescribed.

iv. After making payment, login using Registration Number and Password, then proceed with the changes 
intended as per instructions given and submit the application. 

v. Please complete all stages of the application process. Preserve the print out of latest application for 
record.

15.3	 INVALID APPLICATIONS / REJECTIONS

	 Online applications are liable for rejection on the following grounds amongst others:

a. Invalid photos on account of Black and White photo, photo with cap or wearing Goggles. Photos which are 
disfigured, small size, full body, only one side view of the face, unrecognizable photos, photostat copy of 
photo, group photo, photos without name and date and online application without photo among others.

b. Multiple applications to different RRBs or same RRB. In such case, all applications will be rejected and such 
candidates will be debarred from future RRB/RRC exams.

c. Candidate's name figuring in the debarred list of any RRB/RRC.

d. Any other irregularities which are observed and considered as invalid by RRB.

e. In case the application is rejected, candidates will be able to view their status ONLINE on the website of 
RRBs along with the reason(s) for rejection(s) which is final and binding and no further correspondence shall 
be entertained on the subject. No refund of examination fee will be made on account of rejection of 
application. SMS and e-mail alerts shall also be sent to the candidates on their registered mobile numbers 
and e-mail IDs, as indicated in their ONLINE application. Candidates will not be intimated by post.

16.0	HALL TICKET (e-call letter) FOR CBT/PET/DV

16.1 	Candidates can verify their eligibility status from the website of RRBs. SMS and email messages will be sent to 
all eligible candidates about the e-call letter upload details. 

16.2 	Eligible candidates can download e-call letter (along with e-call letter for Scribe, wherever applicable) from the 
RRBs websites about 10 days before the date of the CBT / PET/ Document Verification (as applicable)

The call letter will not be sent to candidates by post. 

Candidates should read the instructions on the e-call letter carefully and follow them scrupulously. Failure to 
comply with the instructions may lead to cancellation of their candidature.

In case of SC/ST candidates who have uploaded the details of their community certificate for availing the 
benefit of free travel authority (Sleeper Class Railway Pass), the e-call letter for CBT/ PET / DV (as applicable) 
will contain the free travel authority and such candidates will be allowed to book ticket on submission of self 
attested photo copy of e-call letter and SC/ST certificate. During the journey, these candidates should carry 
original SC/ST certificate and one original prescribed proof of identity for undertaking journey failing which they 
will be treated as travelling without ticket and charged accordingly.

16.3 	Candidates must bring their e- call letters along with a valid Photo ID (viz. Voter Card, Aadhaar Card, printout of 
e-Aadhaar, Driving License, PAN card, Passport, Identity Card issued by the employer in case the candidate is 
a Govt. Employee, School / College / University Photo ID card etc.) in ORIGINAL to the examination hall, failing 
which candidates shall NOT be allowed to appear for the CBT / PET / Document Verification (as applicable)

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 14



16.4 	 Candidates must also bring one colour photograph (of size 35mm x 45mm) which was uploaded in the 
application, with clear front view of the candidate without cap and sunglasses, for appearing in the CBT/PET/ 
Document verification (as applicable). 

Candidates should leave the spaces provided in the downloaded e-call letter for writing self declaration 
paragraph, signature and Left Thumb Impression (LTI) unfilled while coming for the exam.

Candidates will have to write the paragraph of self Declaration, sign and affix LTI at the venue of the CBT in the 
presence of the Invigilator at the Examination Hall ONLY and hand over the same to the Invigilator before the 
conclusion of the examination. Candidates writing the self declaration para and Signing  in CAPITAL letters 
will be rejected.

16.5 	 RRB(s) will not entertain any request for any change in examination centre, date and session allotted to 
candidate(s).

17.0  	VERIFICATION OF ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS AND FORMAT OF CERTIFICATES:

Candidates shortlisted for DV are required to produce all original documents along with two sets of self-
attested photo copies of all documents at the time of DV. Further, these candidates should upload the scanned 
copies (in true color) of all the original certificates as applicable prior to their DV date through www.rrbdv.in 
portal.

All Certificates should be either in English or in Hindi only. Where certificates are not in English / Hindi, self 
attested translated version (In Hindi / English) should be produced wherever / whenever required. Certificates 
produced during the DV should be strictly in the prescribed formats. 

No additional time will be given to the candidates not producing their original certificates on their date of DV 
and the candidature of such candidates is liable to be forfeited.

 Documents to be brought by candidates (as applicable) for verification are as indicated below:

17.1	 Matriculation/High School Examination Certificate or Equivalent certificate as Proof for Date of Birth and 
Matriculation Qualification. (The candidates' name and father/ mothers' name mentioned in the application will 
be verified with reference to the names mentioned in this certificate.)

17.2	 NCVT(NTC/NAC) / SCVT Certificate as applicable

17.3	 SC/ST certificate in the format as per Annexure - I.

17.4	 OBC-NCL certificate in the format as per Annexure - II   

17.5	 Non creamy layer declaration by OBC candidates as per Annexure II A

17.6	 Income Certificate for Waiving Examination Fee for Economically Backward Classes as per Annexure – lll.

17.7	 Original discharge certificate for Ex-servicemen.

17.8	 Photo Copy of both sides of Aadhaar Card.

17.9	 Medical Certificate for Persons with Disabilities (PWD) as per Annexure –V(A),V(B),V(C) as applicable

17.10	NOC from serving employees with date of appointment.

17.11	NOC from Serving Defence Personnel with probable date of discharge.

17.12	Minority Community declaration on Non - judicial Stamp Paper as per Annexure - lV.

17.13	Gazette notification and/or any Legal document in case of formal change of name as mentioned in para 1.7. 

17.14	Receipt of payment if made through a challan at SBI branch or Pay-in-slip at Computerized post office.

17.15	Self Certification by the Transgender candidates

17.16	J & K domicile certificate.

17.17	Decree of divorce/judicial separation from the competent Court of Law as applicable and Affidavit stating that 
the candidate has not remarried.

17.18	Death Certificate of spouse in case of widow candidate and Affidavit stating that the candidate has not 
remarried.

17.19	Ex-Servicemen candidates who secure civil employment after applying for this CEN should give self 
declaration to the concerned employer about the details of application against this CEN, as soon as they join. 
The acknowledged copy of this declaration along with NOC from the civil employer should be produced during 
DV. 

Note 1. Candidates who wish to be considered against vacancies reserved / or seek age-relaxation must submit the 
requisite/relevant certificate in original from the Competent Authority, in the prescribed format at the time of 
DV. Otherwise, their claim for SC/ST/OBC/ExSM/PWD status will not be entertained and their candidature/ 
applications will be considered under General (UR) category, if eligible. The certificates should be as per the 
formats annexed. 

Note 2. The Educational qualification Certificates viz Provisional or Regular Matriculation/ITI/NTC/NAC 
should contain the date of issue. In case, date of issue of these certificates is after the closing 
date of the notification, then the consolidated mark sheet with date of declaration of the final 
qualifying exam or individual mark sheets of all the semesters with date of declaration of each 
semester results should be submitted. In case of non-availability of date in any of these 
certificates, then a certificate from the institution/university to this effect (indicating date of 
declaration of result) should be produced at the time of DV.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 15



1

18.0	 IMPERSONATION / SUPPRESSION OF FACTS – WARNING

18.1	 Any candidate found using unfair means of any kind in the examination, sending someone else in his/her place to appear 
in the examination, attempt to impersonate will be debarred from appearing in all the examinations of all the RRBs/RRCs 
for lifetime. He/she will also be debarred from getting any appointment in the Railways and if already appointed, will be 
dismissed from service. Such candidates are also liable for legal prosecution.

18.2	 Furnishing of any false information to the RRB or deliberate suppression of any information at any stage will render the 
candidate disqualified and debarred from appearing at any selection or examination for appointment on the Railways or 
to any other Government service and if appointed the service of such candidate is liable to be terminated.

18.3 	 Candidates found submitting forged/fake certificates/documents of any kind for securing eligibility and/or obtaining 
privileges, including free travel for appearing in the examination shall lead to rejection of their candidature for the 
particular recruitment for which he/she has applied. Further, he/she will also be debarred from all examinations 
conducted by all RRBs/RRCs all over the country for a period of 2 years/for life as deemed fit and legal action will be 
initiated, if warranted.

18.4  	 Candidate shall not bring in or attempt to bring in any political or other influence to further his/her interest in respect of the 
recruitment. Candidature of such candidates is liable to be rejected.

19.0	 MISCELLANEOUS:-

19.1 	 RRBs reserve the right to conduct additional CBT/ PET / DV at any stage. RRBs also reserve the right to cancel part or 
whole of any recruitment process at any stage for any of the categories notified in this CEN without assigning any reason 
thereof.

19.2	 The decision of RRBs in all matters relating to eligibility, acceptance or rejection of ONLINE applications, issue of free 
Rail Passes, penal action for false information, modification of vacancies, mode of selection, conduct of CBT, allotment 
of examination centers, selection, allotment of posts to selected candidates etc., will be final and binding on the 
candidates and no enquiry or correspondence will be entertained by the RRBs in this regard.

19.3	 RRBs will not be responsible for any inadvertent errors.

19.4	 Any legal issues arising out of this CEN shall fall within the legal jurisdiction of respective Central Administrative 
Tribunals under which the RRB concerned is located. 

19.5	 In the event of any dispute about interpretation, the English version of the notification as published in Employment News 
& RRB websites will be treated as final.

Name of RRB Website Address

Ahmedabad(WR) www.rrbahmedabad.gov.in

Telephone
Numbers

079-22940858

Local Language Choice (in addition to Hindi, English 
& Urdu)

Gujarati, Marathi

Ajmer (NWR) www.rrbajmer.gov.in 0145-2425230 Gujarati, Punjabi

Allahabad (NCR) www.rrbald.nic.in 0532-2224531 ----

Bangalore (SWR) www.rrbbnc.gov.in 080- 23330378 Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Konkani

Bhopal (WCR) www.rrbbpl.nic.in 0755-2746660 Gujarati

Bhubhaneswar (ECOR) www.rrbbbs.gov.in 0674-2303015 Odia, Telugu

Bilaspur (SECR) www.rrbbilaspur.gov.in 07752-247291 Marathi, Odia

Chandigarh (NR) www.rrbcdg.gov.in 0172-2730093 Punjabi

Chennai (SR) www.rrbchennai.gov.in 044-28275323 Tamil, Telugu

Gorakhpur (NER) www.rrbgkp.gov.in 0551-2201209 ----

Guwahati (NFR) www.rrbguwahati.gov.in 0361-2540815 Assamese, Bengali, Manipuri

Kolkata (ER) www.rrbkolkata.gov.in 033-25430108 Bengali

Mumbai (CR) www.rrbmumbai.gov.in 022-23090422 Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada

Patna (ECR) www.rrbpatna.gov.in 0612-2677680 ----

Ranchi (SER) www.rrbranchi.gov.in 0651-2462429 Odia, Bengali

Secunderabad (SCR) www.rrbsecunderabad.nic.in 040-27821663 Telugu, Marathi, Kannada & Odia

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018

20.0 Details of various RRBs, their Website Address and Local language options are indicated below:

16



21.0 Abbreviations used in this CEN:

CBT= Computer Based Test, DV = Document Verification, PET=Physical 
Efficiency Test.

CCAA = Course Completed Act Apprentices, EBC = Economically Backward 
Class, ExSM = Ex-Serviceman, OBC- CL= Other Backward Classes Creamy 
Layer, OBC- NCL = Other Backward Classes-Non Creamy Layer, SC = 
Scheduled Caste, ST = Scheduled Tribe, UR = Unreserved (General),

HH = Hearing Handicapped, LV = Low Vision, OH = Orthopedically 
Handicapped, OL = One Leg, PWD = Persons With Disability, VH = Visually 
Handicapped,

CR = Central Railway, ECR = East Central Railway, ECoR = East Coast 
Railway, ER = Eastern Railway, NR = Northern Railway, NCR = North Central 
Railway, NER = North Eastern Railway, NFR = Northeast Frontier Railway, 
NWR = North Western Railway, RRB = Railway Recruitment Board, RRC= 
Railway Recruitment Cell, SR = Southern Railway, SCR = South Central 
Railway, SER = South Eastern Railway, SECR = South East Central Railway, 
SWR = South Western Railway, WR = Western Railway, WCR = West Central 
Railway. 

CEN = Centralized Employment Notice, LTI= Left Thumb Impression, PSU= 
Public Sector Undertaking, 

ITI = Industrial Training Institute, NAC = National Apprenticeship Certificate, 
NTC- National Trade Certificate, NOC = No Objection Certificate, NCVT- 
National Council for Vocational Training, SCVT- State Council for Vocational 
Training,

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018

Reservation / Age 
Relaxation Category

Stages of Recruitment 
Process

Disabilities

Railway Zones / 
Organisations

General

Institutions / Council / 
Certificates

WARNING:-

 Beware of touts and job racketeers trying to deceive by false promises of securing job in Railways 
either through influence or by use of unfair and unethical means. RRB has not appointed any 
agent(s) or coaching center(s) for action on its behalf. Candidates are warned against any such 
claims being made by persons/agencies. Candidates are selected purely as per merit. Beware of 
unscrupulous elements and do not fall in their trap. Candidates attempting to influence RRB 
directly or indirectly shall be disqualified and legal action can be initiated against them.

 Candidates are advised to consult only the official website of RRBs and beware of FAKE websites 
put up by unscrupulous elements/touts.

17



FORM OF CASTE CERTIFICATE FOR SC/ST

Annexure-I

This is to certify that Shri*/ Srimati/ Kumari* ...................................son/daughter* of Shri.......................................... 

V i l l a g e /  To w n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . / D i s t r i c t / D i v i s i o n * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o f 

the........................................State/UnionTerritory* belongs to the.................................Caste*/Tribe which is 

recognised as a Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe (tick whichever is applicable) under :-
*The Constitution Scheduled Castes Order 1950.
*The Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order 1950.
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories) (Part C States) Order 1951;
*The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Union Territories) (Part C States) Order 1951;
[As amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification Order 1956, the Bombay Re-
organisation Act 1960, the Punjab Re- organisation Act 1966, the State of Himachal Pradesh Act 1970, the North 
Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act 1971 and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Orders, (Amendment) 
Act 1976]
*The Constitution (Jammu and Kashmir)* Scheduled Castes Orders, 1956
*The Constitution (Andaman and Nicobar Islands)* Scheduled Tribes Order, 1959 as amended by the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled *Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 1976
*The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli)* Scheduled Castes Order, 1962.
*The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Tribes, Order, 1962
*The Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes Orders, 1964
*The Constitution (Uttar Pradesh) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1967
*The Constitution (Goa, Daman and Diu) Scheduled Castes Order, 1968
*The Constitution (Goa, Daman and Diu) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1968
*The Constitution (Nagaland) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1970.
*The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Castes Order, 1978
*The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1978
*The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1989.
*The Constitution (SC) Orders (Amendment) Act, 1990
*The Constitution (ST) Orders (Amendment) Ordinance Act, 1991
*The Constitution (ST) Orders (Amendment) Ordinance Act, 1996
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Second Amendment) Act, 2002.
*The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002.
2. Applicable in the case of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes persons who have migrated from one State/Union   
Territory Administration.

This certificate is issued on the basis of the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes Certificate issued to

Shri/Srimati*...............................father/mother*..............................of Shri/Srimati/Kumari…………………… of 

V i l l a g e /  To w n * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i n / D i s t r i c t / D i v i s i o n * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o f  t h e 

State/UnionTerritory*………………….who belongs to the........................Caste*/Tribe which is recognised as a 

Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe in the Station/ Union Territory* issued by the ................................dated.

3. Shri/Srimati/Kumari* and /or* his/her* family ordinarily resides in Village/Town*..............................  District/ 

Division* of the State/ Union Territory* of............................................

Place ..........................

Date  ...........................

Signature ....................................

Designation  ................................

(with seal of Office)

State/ Union Territory ...................

* Please delete the words which are not applicable.
 @ Please quote the specific presidential order.
 % Please delete the Paragraph, which is not applicable.
Note: (a) The term “ordinarily reside(s)” used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the Representation 
of the People Act, 1950:  Officers competent to issue caste/tribe certificates:
1. District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Deputy Commissioner / Additional Deputy 
Commissioner / Deputy Collector / 1st Class Stipendiary Magistrate / Sub-Divisional Magistrate / Taluka Magistrate / 
Executive Magistrate / Extra Assistant Commissioner. 2. Chief Presidency Magistrate / Additional Chief Presidency 
Magistrate /  Presidency Magistrate.  3.  Revenue Off icers not below the rank of  Tehsi ldar. 
4. Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and / or his / her family normally reside(s). 5. Certificates 
issued by Gazetteed Officers of the Central or of a State Government Countersigned by the District Magistrate 
concerned. 6. Administrator/ Secretary to Administrator (Laccadive, Minicoy and Admindivi Islands).

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 18



Annexure-II

OBC CERTIFICATE FORMAT

FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES

APPLYING FOR APPOINTMENT TO POST UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

 

This is to certify that 

Shr i /Smt . /Kumar i . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . son/daughter  o f 

……………………………….of   V i l l age /Town  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i n  D is t r i c t /  D i v i s ion 

............................................. in  the State/ Union Territory……………………………….  belongs to the 

................................. community which is recognised as  a Backward Class under the Government of 

India, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment's Resolution No…………………………… 

dated………………………*

Shri/Smt./Kum.*.....................................................................and/or his/her family ordinarily reside(s) in 

the…......................................District/Division of the...........................................................state/Union 

Territory. This is also to certify that he/she does not belong to the persons/sections (Creamy layer) 

mentioned in column 3 (of the Schedule to the Government of India, Department of Personnel & Training 

OM No. 36012/22/93-Estt(SCT), dated 8.9.1993  and modified vide Government of India, Department of 

Personnel and Training O.M.No.36033/1/2013-Estt. (Res) dated 27.05.2013 and 13.09.2017*.

Date: DISTRICT MAGISTRATE /
 DY. COMMISSIONER ETC.

 (Seal )

* The authority issuing the certificate may have to mention the details of Resolution of Government of 
India, in which the caste of the candidate as OBC.

* As amended from time to time. 

Note: The term “Ordinarily” used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the 
Representation of the  People Act, 1950.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 19



Annexure-IIA

DECLARATION

Proforma for declaration to be submitted by Other Backward Class
Candidates at the time of document verification, who had applied for the

posts against Centralized Employment Notice No. CEN 2/2018

“I,............................................... son/daughter of Shri ................................................ resident of 

Village/Town/ City ............................................................. district ............................................................. 

State .......................................... hereby declare that I belong to the ......................................... (indicate 

your sub caste) community which is recognised as a backward class by the Government of India for the 

purpose of reservation in services as per orders contained in Department of Personnel and Training Office 

Memorandum No. 36012/22/93-Estt.(SCT) dated 08.09.1993. It is also declared that I do not belong to 

persons/sections (Creamy Layer) mentioned in column 3 of the Schedule to the above referred Office 

Memorandum dated 08.03.1993 and its subsequent revisions through O.M.No.36033/1/2013-Estt. (Res) 

dated 27.05.2013 and 13.09.2017.

Place:                                                                                                                  Signature of the Candidate   

Date:                                                                                                                       Name of the candidate

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 20



Annexure-III

Income Certificate for EBC

Proforma for Waiver of Examination Fees to be submitted by Economically Backward Class 

candidates at the time of document verification against 

Centralized Employment Notice No CEN 2/2018

1. Name of Candidate : ..................................................................................

2. Father's Name : ..........................................................................................

3. Age : ...........................................................................................................

4. Residential Address : 

......................................................................................................................................

5. Annual Family Income (In words & Figures) : 

......................................................................................................................................

Date: .............................                                  Signature:

         

                                                                                                                    Name:

Stamp of Issuing Authority : 

Note: Economicaly Backward Classes will mean the candidates whose family income is less than 50,000/- 

per annum. The following authorities are authorized to issue income certificates for the purpose of 

identifying economically backward classes:

(1) District magistrate or any other Revenue Officer up in the level of Tahsildar (2) Sitting Member of 

Parliament of Lok Sabha for persons of their own Constituency (3) BPL Card or any other certificate issued 

by Central Government under a recognized poverty alleviation programme or Izzat MST issued by 

Railways. (4) Union Minister may also recommend to Chairman /RRBs for any persons from anywhere in 

the country. (5) Sitting Member of Parliament of Rajya Sabha for persons of the district in which these MPs 

normally reside.

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 21



Annexure-IV

DECLARATION

Proforma for Waiver of Examination Fees to be submitted by

 Minority candidates at the time of Document Verification against 

Centralized Employment Notice No CEN 2/2018

“I,............................................................................................................................... son/daughter of 

Shri ........................................................................................ resident of village / town / city  

................................................................. district ..................... state..............................................hereby 

declare that I belong to the......................................................(indicate minority community notified by 

Central Government i.e., Muslim / Sikh / Christian / Buddhist / Jain / Zoroastrians (Parsis)

Date :                                                               Signature of the Candidate

Place :                                                                 Name of the Candidate

Note : At the time of document verification such candidates claiming waiver of examination fee will be 

required to furnish 'Minority Community Declaration' affidavit on Non Judicial Stamp paper that he / she 

belongs to any of the minority community notified by Central Government (i.e., Muslim / Sikh / Christian / 

Buddhist / Jain / Zoroastrians (Parsis).

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 22



ANNEXURE V(A)

Disability Certificate

FORM-II

(In cases of amputation or complete permanent paralysis of limbs and in cases of blindness)

(See Rule 4)

(NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEDICAL AUTHORITY ISSUING THE CERTIFICATE)

Certificate No.:                                                     Date:

This is to certify that I have carefully examined

Shri/Smt/Kum……………………………..son/wife/ daughter of Shri………………………........Date of Birth 
(DD/MM/YYYY)…………………… Age…………Years, Male/Female…………..  Registration No. 
…………………………………  Permanent Resident of House No. ……………Ward/Village/Street 
………....................... Post Office…........ District…………...... State……………

Whose photograph is affixed above, and am satisfied that:

(A) He/she is a case of:

 *Locomotor Disability 

 *Blindness 

  (Please tick as applicable)

(B) The diagnosis in his/her case is …………………………………..……….....

(1) He/She has …………% (in figure ………….…. percent (in words) permanent physical impairment/ 
blindness in relation to his/her ……………………..……. (part of body) as per guidelines (to be specified).

(2)      The applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence:

R e c e n t  P P 
Size Attested 
P h o t o g r a p h 
(Showing face
only)  o f  the 
pe rson  w i th 
disability

S i g n a t u r e / T h u m b 
Impression of the person 
in whose favour disability 
certificate is issued

(Signature and Seal of Authorized 
Signatory of notified Medical Authority)

Nature of Document Date of Issue
Details of authority 
issuing certificate

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 23



ANNEXURE V(B)
Disability Certificate

FORM-III
(In case of multiple disabilities)

(NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEDICAL AUTHORITY ISSUING THE CERTIFICATE)
(See Rule 4)

Certificate no:…………………..      Date: 
1 This is to certify that we have carefully examined
Shri/Smt./Kum…………………………………son/wife/daughter of Shri……………………………………...     

D a t e  o f  B i r t h ( d d / m m / y y y y ) … … … … … … … … … A g e … … … … … … … … … . y e a r s , 

Male/Female…………………………  Registration No. …………….........Permanent Resident of House 

No…….. Ward/Village/Street…………….. whose photograph is affixed above and are satisfied that:

R e c e n t  P P 
Size Attested 
P h o t o g r a p h 
(Showing face
only)  o f  the 
pe rson  w i th 
disability

(A) He/She is a case of Multiple Disability. His/Her extent of permanent physical impairment/disability has 

been evaluated as per guidelines (to be specified) for the disabilities ticked below and shown against the 

relevant disability in the table below:

(B) In the light of the above, his/her over all permanent physical impairment as per guidelines (to be 
specified), is as follows:
In figures: ………………………..percent
In words : ……………………………………………………...percent
2. This condition is progressive/non-progressive/likely to improve/not likely to improve.
3. Reassessment of disability is :
I  not necessary, Or
ii) is recommended/after ……………….year …………………….…months, and therefore this certificate shall be 
valid till ……………………………………………(DD/MM/YYYY)
@ e.g. Left/Right/both arms/legs
# e.g Single eye/both eyes
£ e.g. Left/Right/both ears
4. The applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence

Nature of Document Date of issue Details of authority issuing certificate

5. Signature and seal of the Medical Authority

Name and seal of Member Name and seal of Member Name and seal of the Chairperson

Signature/Thumb impressionof
the person in whose favour
disability certificate is issued

Sl.
No.

Disability
Affected Part

of Body
Diagnosis

Permanent Physical
Impairment/Mental 

Disability(in%)

1 Locomotor Disability @

2 Low Vision #

3 Blindness Both Eyes

4 Hearing Impairment £

5 Mental Retardation X

6 Mental-illness X

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 24



ANNEXURE V(C)

Disability Certificate

FORM – IV

 (In cases other than those mentioned in Forms II and III)

(NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEDICAL AUTHORITY ISSUING THE CERTIFICATE)

(See Rule 4)

Certificate No.:                                                            Date:

1.This is to certify that I have carefully examined

Shri/Smt./Kum……………………………son/wife/daughter of Shri……………………………………………

Date of Birth(DD/MM/YYYY)………………..Age..............…years, Male/Female………………………….........                                                    

Registration No. …………….........Permanent Resident of House No…….. Ward/Village/Street…………….. whose 

photograph is affixed above and am satisfied that he/she is a case ……………….. Disability. His/her extent of 

percentage physical impairment/disability has been evaluated as per guidelines (to be specified) and is shown 

against the relevant disability in the table below: 

R e c e n t  P P 
Size Attested 
P h o t o g r a p h 
(Showing face
only)  o f  the 
pe rson  w i th 
disability

Sl.
No.

Disability
Affected Part

of Body
Diagnosis

Permanent Physical
Impairment/Mental 

Disability(in%)

1 Locomotor Disability @

2 Low Vision #

3 Blindness Both Eyes

4 Hearing Impairment £

5 Mental Retardation X

6 Mental-illness X

(Please strike out the disabilities which are not applicable)
2. The above condition is progressive/non-progressive/likely to improve/not likely to improve.
3.Reassessment of disability is:
(i). not necessary, Or
(ii) is recommended/after ……….  years ………….months and therefore this certificate shall be valid till 
………………...... (DD)(MM)(YYYY)                  
@  e.g. Left/Right/both arms/legs
# e.g. Single eye/both eyes
£   e.g. Left/Right/both ears
4. The applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence:

Nature of Document Date of issue Details of authority issuing certificate

S i g n a t u r e / T h u m b 
Impression of the person 
in whose favour disability 
certificate is issued

Note: In case this certificate is issued by a medical 
authority who is not a government servant, it shall be 
valid only if countersigned by the Chief Medical 
Officer of the District. The principal rules were 
published in the Gazette of India vide notification 
number S.O. 908(E),dated the 31st December, 1996.

(Authorised Signatory of notif ied 
Medical Authority) (Name and Seal)

Countersigned [(Countersignature and seal of the 
CMO/Medical Superintendent/Head of Government Hospital 
in case the certificate is issued by a medical authority who is 
not a government servant (with seal)])

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 25



Annexure-V(D)

DECLARATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY VISUALLY HANDICAPED CANDIDATES & THOSE 

CANDIDATES WHOSE WRITING SPEED IS AFFECTED BY CEREBRAL PALSY OR 

MUSCULAR WEAKNESS AND CANDIDATES WITH ONE ARM

Paste here recent 
co lou r  Passpor t 
Size Photograph of 
the SCRIBE of size 
3.5 cmx 4.5cm (The 
colour photograph 
should not be more 
than 3 months old.

Regn. No: …………

Sign of Scribe

1. Name of the Candidate ......................................................................................

2. Date of Birth of the Candidate ...........................................................................

3. Name of the Scribe ............................................................................................

4. Father's Name of the Scribe ..............................................................................

5. Address of the Scribe : 

(a) Permanent Address ..........................................................................................

................................................................................................................................

(b) Present Address ...............................................................................................

................................................................................................................................

6.Educational Qualification of the Scribe ...............................................................

................................................................................................................................

................................................................................................................................

7. Relationship, if any, of the Scribe to the Candidate ........................................................

8. DECLARATION:
We hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct to the best of our knowledge and 

belief. We have read/ been read out the instructions of the Railway Recruitment Board regarding conduct of 

the visually challenged  candidates/scribes at this examination and here by undertake to abide by them. We 

also certify that the scribe himself/herself is not a candidate for this CEN. Further he/she has not acted as 

scribe for any other candidate in any CBT of this CEN.  

(Signature of the Candidate) 

Left thumb impression 
o f  t h e  c a n d i d a t e 
in the box given above 

Left thumb impression 
of the Scribe in the 
box given above.

(Signature of the Scribe) 

PARTICULARS OF SCRIBE PROPOSED TO BE ENGAGED BY THE CANDIDATE

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 26



Proforma for Medical Certificate to be obtained by candidates applying 
for the posts of Assistant Loco Pilot from an Eye Specialist

Distant Vision Near Vision
Colour Vision 

Ishihara

Binocular Vision, 
Field of Vision & 

Night Vision
Actual 

Observation
/ Value

Normal Normal

Shri/Smt/Kum ........................................................................................... fully conforms / does not 

conform (Strike out either  'fully conforms'  or ' does not conform' as the case may be) to the above 

vision standards.

 It is also certified that he/she did not undergo any surgery to correct refractive error. 

Name of the Eye Specialist ………………………………………...

Registration No. of the Eye Specialist. ……………………….......

Place: 

Date:                                                                                                (Signature & Seal of the Eye Specialist)

I have examined Shri/Smt/Kum ……..…………………….................. who 
has applied for the post of Assistant Loco Pilot in Indian Railways. His/her 
vision has been tested with reference to the required standard and the 
results are as below:

Paste here your recent 
co lou r  passpo r t  s i ze 
photograph of size  3.5 cm 
x  4 .5  cm(The  co lou r 
photograph should  be the 
same as used in  the 
r e g i s t r a t i o n )  T h e 
photograph should be 
a t t e s t e d  b y  t h e  e y e 
specialist

Signature of candidate

Annexure-VI

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 27



1 

 

      ANNEXURE-A 

CEN 2/2018 – POST PARAMETERS  

 

Cat 
No. 

Designation Department 
Medical 
Standard 

Suitability for 
Persons with 

Disability Minimum Educational Qualification 

VH OH HH 

1 HELPER / ELECTRICAL (WORKSHOP) ELECTRICAL C1 NO OL HH 

10th pass plus National Apprenticeship 
Certificate (NAC) granted by NCVT  

(OR)  
10th pass plus ITI from institutions 

recognised by NCVT/SCVT 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL B1 NO OL HH 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL B1 NO OL HH 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL B2 No OL HH 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL B1 No OL HH 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL B1 NO OL HH 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL B1 NO OL HH 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING B1 NO NO NO 

9 HELPER / CIVIL ENGINEERING B1 NO NO NO 

10 HELPER / CIVIL (WORKSHOP) ENGINEERING C1 NO OL HH 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING B1 NO NO NO 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING B1 NO OL HH 

13 HELPER / WORKS ENGINEERING B1 NO OL HH 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING B1 NO NO NO 

15 HELPER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL C1 NO OL HH 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL B1 NO OL HH 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL B1 NO OL HH 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL B1 NO OL HH 

19 HELPER MECHANICAL (POWER) MECHANICAL B1 NO OL HH 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T B1 NO OL HH 

21 HELPER / S and T (WORKSHOP) S and T C1 NO OL HH 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T B1 NO OL HH 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T B1 NO OL HH 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL C1 LV OL HH 

10th pass  
(OR)  

ITI from institutions recognised by 
NCVT/SCVT (or) equivalent  

(OR)  
National Apprenticeship Certificate 

(NAC) granted by NCVT 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL C1 LV OL HH 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC A2 NO NO No 

27 GATEMAN TRAFFIC A2 NO NO No 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC A2 NO NO NO 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



1 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

CEN 02/2018 - VACANCY TABLE 
Details of RRB-wise and Railway-wise vacancies  

 

RRB : AHMEDABAD (Western Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 86 28 30 78 222 44 44 0 11 18 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 74 23 12 41 150 30 30 0 7 13 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 18 6 8 15 47 10 10 0 3 4 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 54 17 9 31 111 22 22 0 5 11 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 53 14 9 27 103 20 20 0 5 10 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 106 32 15 55 208 42 42 0 0 0 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 51 15 7 29 102 20 20 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 21 6 3 11 41 8 8 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1441 423 210 757 2831 566 566 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 411 122 60 221 814 163 163 0 40 72 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 31 10 5 17 63 13 13 0 3 5 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 24 8 3 14 49 10 10 0 2 5 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 204 56 35 101 396 79 79 0 18 35 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 12 4 2 6 24 5 5 0 1 2 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL 7 2 1 3 13 2 2 1 0 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 3 1 0 2 6 1 1 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 359 104 53 191 707 141 141 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 101 30 15 54 200 40 40 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  3056 901 477 1653 6087 1216 1216 1 95 175 

 

 

RRB : AJMER (North Western Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 28 8 4 15 55 11 11 0 1 1 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 259 77 38 137 511 102 102 0 3 0 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 3 1 1 2 7 1 1 0 0 0 

9 HELPER / CIVIL ENGINEERING 12 3 1 1 17 3 3 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 15 0 1 0 16 3 3 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1541 430 222 705 2898 492 492 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 203 59 29 109 400 79 79 0 3 0 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 11 3 2 6 22 4 4 0 0 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 18 5 4 10 37 7 7 0 1 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 56 16 6 28 106 21 21 0 1 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 9 2 2 4 17 3 3 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 218 64 32 116 430 86 86 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 120 36 18 65 239 48 48 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  2493 704 360 1198 4755 860 860 0 9 1 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



2 

 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : ALLAHABAD (North Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 2 1 0 1 4 1 1 0 0 0 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 48 13 6 3 70 14 14 0 0 0 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 29 9 5 16 59 12 12 0 1 0 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 8 3 1 4 16 3 3 0 1 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 90 28 11 29 158 32 32 0 3 1 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 98 30 10 31 169 33 33 0 2 1 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 30 8 11 9 58 12 12 0 0 0 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 11 3 2 4 20 4 4 0 0 0 

13 HELPER / WORKS ENGINEERING 76 23 11 41 151 30 30 0 3 2 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1297 376 188 648 2509 502 502 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 202 59 30 108 399 80 80 0 0 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 30 9 4 16 59 12 12 0 0 0 

19 HELPER MECHANICAL (POWER) MECHANICAL 3 1 0 2 6 1 1 0 0 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 93 26 0 23 142 28 28 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 45 14 7 24 90 18 18 0 3 0 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T 23 7 4 13 47 10 10 0 1 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 26 8 8 12 54 10 10 0 1 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 386 104 49 143 682 136 136 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 36 14 5 14 69 14 14 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  2533 736 352 1141 4762 952 952 0 15 4 

 

 

 

RRB : BANGALORE (South Western Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 51 15 8 27 101 20 20 0 2 1 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 19 5 3 10 37 7 7 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 4 12 3 17 36 7 7 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 702 209 104 373 1388 278 278 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 208 50 20 80 358 72 72 0 1 1 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 9 3 2 5 19 3 3 0 2 1 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 8 3 1 5 17 3 3 0 2 1 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 31 9 5 15 60 12 12 0 3 1 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 5 1 1 2 9 2 2 3 3 3 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 119 34 17 62 232 46 46 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 28 5 3 0 36 7 7 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1184 346 167 596 2293 457 457 3 13 8 

 

 

 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



3 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : BHOPAL (West Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 10 2 4 6 22 4 4 0 0 0 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 23 7 4 13 47 9 9 0 0 0 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 17 2 5 11 35 7 7 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 40 13 12 28 93 18 18 0 0 0 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 1 0 4 0 5 1 1 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1031 306 153 551 2041 408 408 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 290 79 69 175 613 122 122 0 0 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 53 14 10 31 108 21 21 0 1 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 50 15 7 26 98 20 20 0 0 0 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL 0 1 1 1 3 1 1 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 138 18 9 55 220 44 44 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 119 36 18 64 237 47 47 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1772 493 296 961 3522 702 702 0 1 0 

 

RRB : BHUBANESWAR (East Coast Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 1 3 6 2 12 2 2 0 0 0 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 9 3 7 4 23 4 4 0 0 0 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 53 19 14 7 93 18 18 0 3 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 14 5 3 1 23 5 5 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 502 139 65 231 937 187 187 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 78 38 40 27 183 37 37 0 0 0 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 1 0 1 1 3 1 1 0 0 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 2 1 2 2 7 1 1 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 25 9 5 17 56 11 11 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 38 11 6 21 76 15 15 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 60 17 9 33 119 24 24 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  783 245 158 346 1532 305 305 0 3 0 

 

RRB : BILASPUR (South East Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 3 3 1 1 8 2 2 0 0 2 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 12 4 2 7 25 5 5 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 7 0 1 9 17 3 3 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 449 135 68 243 895 179 179 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 60 15 9 29 113 23 23 0 1 0 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 3 1 0 2 6 1 1 0 0 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 7 1 1 4 13 3 3 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 13 3 2 12 30 6 6 0 1 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 11 2 0 4 17 3 3 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 22 4 3 6 35 7 7 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  587 168 87 317 1159 232 232 0 2 2 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



4 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : CHANDIGARH (Northern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

1 HELPER / ELECTRICAL (WORKSHOP) ELECTRICAL 16 4 2 8 30 4 4 0 1 0 

2 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / AC ELECTRICAL 27 8 4 15 54 10 10 0 1 1 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 121 35 17 64 237 46 46 0 3 3 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 2 1 0 1 4 1 1 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 42 12 6 22 82 15 15 0 0 0 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 89 26 13 47 175 35 35 0 0 0 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 11 2 2 6 21 4 4 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1965 584 294 1051 3894 777 777 0 0 0 

15 HELPER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 282 84 42 151 559 109 109 0 7 6 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 607 181 90 326 1204 239 239 0 0 0 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 19 6 3 10 38 6 6 0 1 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 77 23 11 41 152 29 29 0 4 0 

19 HELPER MECHANICAL (POWER) MECHANICAL 10 3 1 5 19 3 3 0 0 0 

21 HELPER / S and T (WORKSHOP) S and T 42 12 6 22 82 16 16 0 1 1 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 96 29 13 50 188 36 36 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 347 104 54 187 692 137 137 0 0 0 

27 GATEMAN TRAFFIC 132 39 21 69 261 52 52 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 70 21 11 38 140 28 28 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  3955 1174 590 2113 7832 1547 1547 0 18 11 

 

RRB : CHENNAI (Southern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 69 18 20 38 145 29 29 0 1 0 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 91 27 14 48 180 36 36 0 3 2 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 952 279 170 458 1859 372 372 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 280 58 67 68 473 95 95 0 8 6 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 17 5 6 7 35 8 8 0 0 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 13 3 2 7 25 4 4 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 32 10 11 17 70 14 14 0 0 0 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T 8 2 1 4 15 3 3 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 88 29 41 19 177 36 36 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1550 431 332 666 2979 597 597 0 12 8 

 

RRB : GORAKHPUR (North Eastern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 85 23 25 33 166 33 33 0 1 1 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 48 14 7 26 95 19 19 0 1 1 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 16 4 2 8 30 6 6 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 18 5 3 9 35 7 7 0 0 0 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 15 5 2 8 30 6 6 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 909 271 135 486 1801 360 360 0 0 0 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



5 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : GORAKHPUR (North Eastern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 163 48 24 86 321 64 64 0 1 1 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 32 10 5 18 65 13 13 0 1 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 7 2 1 4 14 3 3 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 47 11 19 60 137 27 27 0 1 0 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL 14 4 1 7 26 5 5 0 0 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 15 6 3 9 33 6 6 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 137 42 21 75 275 55 55 0 0 0 

27 GATEMAN TRAFFIC 115 35 18 62 230 46 46 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 65 20 10 35 130 26 26 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1686 500 276 926 3388 676 676 0 5 3 

 

RRB : GUWAHATI (Northeast Frontier Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 38 12 6 20 76 15 15 0 0 3 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 36 11 5 20 72 14 14 0 0 2 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 51 15 8 28 102 20 20 0 0 0 

10 HELPER / CIVIL (WORKSHOP) ENGINEERING 4 1 0 2 7 1 1 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 17 5 3 9 34 7 7 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 869 257 129 464 1719 345 345 0 0 0 

15 HELPER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 14 4 3 7 28 6 6 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 22 7 4 12 45 9 9 0 0 1 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 23 7 3 12 45 9 9 0 0 1 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T 15 3 1 6 25 5 5 0 0 0 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL 13 2 2 8 25 5 5 0 0 1 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 12 3 1 6 22 4 4 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 152 46 24 82 304 61 61 0 0 0 

27 GATEMAN TRAFFIC 38 11 4 20 73 14 14 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1304 384 193 696 2577 515 515 0 0 8 

 

RRB : KOLKATA (Eastern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 3 2 4 10 19 4 4 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 5 8 4 13 30 6 6 0 0 1 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1066 319 163 580 2128 426 426 0 0 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 25 7 13 25 70 14 14 0 0 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 4 5 5 0 14 2 2 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 38 10 11 17 76 15 15 0 0 0 

27 GATEMAN TRAFFIC 10 3 2 7 22 4 4 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 4 1 1 2 8 2 2 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1155 355 203 654 2367 473 473 0 0 1 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



6 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : MUMBAI (Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 53 8 9 25 95 19 19 0 4 11 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 38 11 6 20 75 15 15 0 3 3 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 81 19 14 42 156 31 31 0 10 8 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 157 47 29 104 337 67 67 0 0 0 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 108 30 19 60 217 43 43 0 6 4 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 16 5 2 8 31 6 6 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1114 328 164 594 2200 440 440 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 282 86 67 147 582 116 116 0 5 11 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 1 1 2 1 5 1 1 0 1 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 31 9 5 15 60 12 12 0 9 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 34 10 6 18 68 14 14 0 3 2 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 14 4 2 6 26 5 5 0 0 0 

24 HELPER / MEDICAL MEDICAL 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 51 14 17 12 94 19 19 5 6 6 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 340 103 51 184 678 136 136 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  2321 675 393 1236 4625 924 924 5 47 45 

 

 

RRB : PATNA (East Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

1 HELPER / ELECTRICAL (WORKSHOP) ELECTRICAL 8 2 2 4 16 3 3 0 0 0 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 23 7 3 12 45 9 9 0 1 0 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 82 24 12 43 161 33 33 0 3 2 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 35 11 5 19 70 14 14 0 1 1 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 52 15 9 28 104 20 20 0 2 2 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 24 8 4 14 50 10 10 0 1 1 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 41 13 8 22 84 17 17 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 71 21 11 38 141 28 28 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1747 518 260 934 3459 693 693 0 0 0 

15 HELPER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 13 4 2 7 28 6 6 0 0 3* 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 243 74 35 131 483 96 96 0 11 3 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 24 7 3 12 46 9 9 0 1 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 22 7 3 12 44 9 9 0 1 0 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 9 3 1 6 19 4 4 0 0 0 

21 HELPER / S and T (WORKSHOP) S and T 88 26 13 47 174 35 35 0 4 1 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 46 14 7 25 92 19 19 0 0 1 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T 10 3 2 5 20 4 4 0 0 0 

28 PORTER / HAMAL / SWEEPER CUM PORTER TRAFFIC 478 142 70 255 945 189 189 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  3016 899 450 1614 5981 1198 1198 0 25 14* 

 Includes 2 HH backlog vacancies 

 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 



7 

 

 

ANNEXURE-B 

RRB : RANCHI (South Eastern Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 13 8 3 12 36 7 7 0 0 0 

4 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / POWER ELECTRICAL 6 2 2 5 15 3 3 0 0 0 

5 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRAIN LIGHTING ELECTRICAL 4 2 1 3 10 2 2 0 0 0 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 35 16 7 18 76 15 15 0 0 0 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 70 31 11 38 150 29 29 0 0 0 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 3 1 0 0 4 1 1 0 0 0 

12 HELPER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING 21 6 3 11 41 8 8 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 547 161 80 286 1074 215 215 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 192 83 44 116 435 87 87 0 0 0 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 11 3 1 5 20 4 4 0 0 0 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 15 4 1 7 27 5 5 0 0 0 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 59 19 9 27 114 23 23 0 0 0 

23 HELPER / TELECOMMUNICATION S and T 17 5 3 10 35 7 7 0 0 0 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 6 0 0 1 7 1 1 0 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 241 85 32 123 481 96 96 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  1240 426 197 662 2525 503 503 0 0 0 

 

 

 

RRB : SECUNDERABAD (South Central Railway) 
Cat. 
No. 

Name of the Post Department 
No. of Vacancies 

UR SC ST OBC TOTAL ExSM CCAA** VH OH HH 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) 

3 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / GENERAL SERVICES ELECTRICAL 85 23 13 44 165 32 32 0 9 9 

6 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL 84 24 13 44 165 32 32 0 9 9 

7 HELPER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL 41 11 6 21 79 15 15 0 4 5 

8 HELPER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING 59 19 8 33 119 23 23 0 0 0 

11 HELPER / P WAY ENGINEERING 95 28 14 51 188 35 35 0 0 0 

14 TRACK MAINTAINER GRADE IV ENGINEERING 1986 593 297 1064 3940 786 786 0 0 0 

16 HELPER / MECHANICAL / CARRIAGE and WAGON MECHANICAL 227 70 35 119 451 88 88 0 24 23 

17 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL 27 8 5 14 54 9 9 0 3 3 

18 HELPER / MECHANICAL / DIESEL MECHANICAL MECHANICAL 87 25 14 46 172 34 34 0 10 9 

20 HELPER / S and T S and T 120 35 17 65 237 46 46 0 11 12 

22 HELPER / SIGNAL S and T 8 2 2 4 16 3 3 0 1 1 

25 HOSPITAL ATTENDANT MEDICAL 27 8 4 14 53 10 10 53 0 0 

26 ASSISTANT POINTSMAN TRAFFIC 408 170 102 204 884 175 175 0 0 0 

 RRB TOTAL  3254 1016 530 1723 6523 1288 1288 53 71 71 

             

 GRAND TOTAL  31889 9453 5061 16502 62907 12445 12445 62 316 351* 

*Includes 2 HH backlog vacancies 

**Vacancies under CCAA are applicable to Apprentices trained in Railway Establishments only. 

 

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.02/2018 


	Cover Page CEN 2-2018 (English)
	Detailed CEN 02 2018 08022018 VER1 - Copy 1-16
	Page 1
	Page 2
	Page 3
	Page 4
	Page 5
	Page 6
	Page 7
	Page 8
	Page 9
	Page 10
	Page 11
	Page 12
	Page 13
	Page 14
	Page 15

	Untitled-1 16
	Page 1

	Detailed CEN 02 2018 08022018 VER1 - Copy 17-27
	Page 17
	Page 18
	Page 19
	Page 20
	Page 21
	Page 22
	Page 23
	Page 24
	Page 25
	Page 26
	Page 27

	08-02-2018 ANNEXURE A CEN 2-2018 ENGLISH
	08-02-2018 ANNEXURE B CEN 2-2018 ENGLISH

