












































RRB AD A4 Content.indd


Recruitment of Junior Engineer (JE), Junior Engineer (Information Technology) Depot Material 
Superintendant (DMS) and Chemical &Metallurgical Assistant (CMA))

Detailed Centralized Employment Notification
CEN 03/2018



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 1

Government of India, Ministry of Railways, 
Railway Recruitment Boards

CENTRALISED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018
{Recruitment of Junior Engineer (JE), Junior Engineer (Information Technology) [JE(IT)], Depot Material Superintendant 

(DMS) and Chemical & Metallurgical Assistant (CMA)}

Important Dates & Time
Date of Publication 29.12.2018
Opening  of online registration at 10:00 hrs 02.01.2019
Closing  of online registration at 23:59 hrs 31.01.2019
Closing of offline payment at 13:00 hrs 04.02.2019
Closing of online payment at 22:00 hrs 05.02.2019
Closing of online submission of application complete in all respects at 23:59 hrs 07.02.2019
1st Stage Computer Based Test (CBT) Tentatively scheduled during April/May, 2019

• Dates for CBTs of recruitment process shall be intimated through Railway Recruitment Board (RRB)   
websites listed at Para-20.0 of this Notice.
Railway Recruitment Boards invite ONLINE applications from eligible candidates for the posts of Junior Engineer (JE), Junior Engineer 
(Information Technology) [JE(IT)], Depot Material Superintendant (DMS) and Chemical & Metallurgical Assistant (CMA). 

IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:-
1. Candidates should ensure that they possess/fulfill all eligibility conditions prescribed for the
 post(s)  as on the closing date of online registration (31.01.2019). CANDIDATES WAITING FOR 
 FINAL RESULTS OF PRESCRIBED EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION SHOULD NOT APPLY. 
2. Any candidate found using unfair means of any kind in the examination, sending someone else 
 in his/her place to appear in the examination, attempt to impersonate will be debarred from 
 appearing in all the examinations of all the RRBs/RRCs (Railway Recruitment Cell)  for lifetime. 
 He/she will also be debarred from getting any appointment in the Railways, and if already 
 appointed, will be dismissed from service. Such candidates are also liable for legal prosecution.  
3. Candidates are advised to visit only official websites of the RRBs indicated at Para 20.0 of the CEN 
 and be very cautious about fake websites and job racketeers.
4. Scale of Pay: For Junior Engineer (JE), Junior Engineer (Information Technology) [JE(IT)], Depot 
 Material Superintendant (DMS) and Chemical & Metallurgical Assistant (CMA):-Level 06 (RSRP 7th 
 CPC Pay Matrix.) with initial pay of Rs. 35400/-, plus other allowances admissible at that time. 
5. Age: 18-33 years (as on 01-01-2019) (Please refer  Para No. 5.0).
6. Candidates are required to go through the Post Parameter Table, Vacancy Table and ascertain their 
 eligibility to apply through ONLINE mode to any one RRB only, depending upon their eligibility.  
 The selection of RRB once exercised shall be final. Application to more than one RRB, will lead to 
 rejection of all the applications. 
7. Eligibility of the candidates will be considered only on the strength of the information furnished 
 in the ONLINE Application. Candidates need NOT send printouts of application or Certificates or 
 copies to RRBs concerned by post. If at any stage of recruitment or thereafter, it is found that any 
 information furnished by the candidate in his/her application is false/incorrect or the candidate has 
 suppressed any relevant information or the candidate does not satisfy the eligibility criteria for the 
 post(s), his/her candidature will be rejected forthwith.  After submission of application against 
 this CEN RRBs shall not entertain any representation for modification of the information 
 furnished in the application.
8. Candidates must ensure that they fulfill the prescribed medical standards for the post(s) they are 
 opting for. Candidates who are found medically unsuitable for the opted post(s) shall not be 
 given any alternative appointment. 
9. Stages of Exam: There shall be two stage Computer Based Test (CBT). 
10. Marks will be normalized as per the formulae given in Para No. 14.2 & 14.3 of this Notice.
11. RRB-wise shortlisting of candidates for 2nd Stage CBT shall be done at the rate of 15 times (may increase or decrease as per 
 the requirement of Railway Administration).  The shortlisting of 2nd Stage CBT will be based on the merit of the candidates in 1st 
 Stage CBT.  The RRB-wise shortlisted candidates for 2nd Stage CBT shall be advised through the official websites of RRBs and 
 e-mail to download their e-call letter for appearing in the 2nd Stage CBT.      
12. Negative Marking: There shall be negative marking for incorrect answers in CBTs.   1/3rd of the marks allotted for each 
 question shall be deducted for each wrong answer. 
13. Banned items:- Electronic gadgets like Mobile phones, Bluetooth, pen drive, laptops, calculators, wrist watches or any other 
 communication devices or pen/pencil, wallets/purses, belts  and metallic wears including ornaments etc., are strictly NOT 
 allowed  inside the examination hall. Any infringement of this instruction will entail summary rejection besides legal action 
 including debarment from future examinations.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 2

14. Candidates are advised in their own interest not to bring any of the above banned items to the venue of the examination, 
 as arrangements for safe keeping cannot be assured.
15. Center/City allocation will depend upon technical and logistical feasibility.  Candidates may have to travel to other Cities/States.
16. Candidates should have their own Mobile Number and valid & active e-mail ID as RRBs shall send all recruitment related 
 communications only through SMS and e-mail.  The Mobile Number and e-mail ID should be active till the completion of 
 recruitment process.   RRBs will not entertain any request for change of mobile number and e-mail address at any stage.
17. Before filling up of the online application, candidates are advised to thoroughly read the entire instructions and information in 
 the detailed CEN available on the websites of RRBs.
1.0 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
1.1 Admission to all stages of recruitment process shall be purely provisional, subject to the candidates satisfying the prescribed 
 eligibility conditions.
1.2  Mere issue of e-Call letter to the candidates will NOT imply that their candidature has been finally accepted by the RRB.
1.3  RRBs conduct verification of eligibility conditions with reference to original documents only after the candidates have qualified 
 in all the stages of examinations.  RRBs may reject the candidature of any applicant at any stage of recruitment process, in 
 case the candidate is found to be not fulfilling the requisite criteria, and if appointed, such a candidate is liable to be removed 
 from service summarily.
1.4 Before applying for the post(s) against this CEN, candidates should satisfy themselves that they fulfill all the eligibility 
 norms including age, educational qualification(s) and medical standard(s). Candidates should ensure that they have requisite 
 educational/technical qualifications from recognized Board/University/Institute as on the on the closing date for ONLINE 
 Registration (31.01.2019). Those awaiting results of the final examination for the prescribed qualification are not eligible 
 and hence should not apply. 
1.5 Candidates attempting to apply with minor changes of information and/or facts to more than one RRB and /or multiple 
 applications to the same RRB will be summarily rejected and such candidates will be debarred from all future examinations of 
 RRB.
1.6 Candidates who have been debarred by any RRB/RRC either for life or for a specified period which is not yet completed should 
 NOT apply for this CEN. Their candidature will be rejected during any stage of recruitment as and when detected.
1.7 Candidates should enter their Name, Father’s Name and Date of Birth as recorded in the Matriculation/SSLC/High 
 School Examination Certificate or an equivalent Certificate ONLY.
 In cases of name change, candidates should indicate their Changed Name only in the ONLINE application. However, other 
 details should match with the Matriculation or Equivalent certificate. Date of such change (or) application for such change 
 should be prior to the date of registration of ONLINE application.
 Gazette Notification or any other legal document as applicable for such cases should be submitted at the time of Document 
 Verification (DV).
1.8  Signatures of the candidates on all documents should be identical, in all stages of recruitment process and should not be in
  block/capital letters.  Signatures in different style at the time of CBT and DV etc. (as applicable) may result in cancellation of 
  candidature.
1.9   Dates of examinations will also be published on the websites of participating RRBs and e-Call letters for CBT and DV (as 
 applicable) will be available for downloading ONLY on websites of the RRBs concerned. The examination centre, date and shift 
 indicated in the call letter shall be final. 
 RRBs reserve the right to introduce additional CBTs and/or additional DV etc., without assigning any reason. 
1.10 Vacancies indicated in the CEN are provisional and may increase or decrease or even may become NIL in total or in specific 
 Railways/Units/Communities/Posts at a later stage depending upon the actual needs of the Railway Administration.  Further 
 additional posts, if required by the Railway(s)/Unit(s) may also be included at later stage. 
 The Railway Administration also reserves the right to cancel the notified vacancies at its discretion and such decision will be 
 final and binding on all. In the event of cancellation of notified vacancies, the examination fee paid by the candidates will not 
 be refunded except for candidates, who have attended the 1st Stage CBT. 
1.11 Preference for post(s) and/or Railway(s)/Unit(s): The options from the candidates for various posts for which they are 
 eligible in the opted RRB, shall be taken during submission of ONLINE applications.
 On completion of all stages of recruitment process, RRBs shall allot post & Railway/Unit as per the option of the candidates 
 ONLY subject to merit and vacancy position. Once candidates have been empanelled as per their merit/choice, they will forfeit 
 the right to be considered for any other post/category.
 Candidates with partial option will be considered only for the specific categories opted by them.  Non-option for certain posts 
 would be considered as their unwillingness for the same.
 However, RRBs also reserve the right to allot Post/Railway/Unit not opted by the candidates, if considered necessary in 
 administrative interest, subject to the candidate(s) meeting the requirements of the post concerned.
 In case of shortfall in empanelment of candidates or other exigencies, RRB reserves the right to utilize the extra list of 
 candidates, if required, as per the merit and option of the candidates.  
1.12  Selection by RRB does not confer upon candidates any right of appointment in the Railways. The function of the RRB is to 
 recommend names of suitable candidates to the concerned authorities of the Zonal Railway/Production Unit who in turn issue 
 the offer of appointment letter subject to availability of vacancies and satisfying all eligibility criteria including antecedents and 
 character.
1.13  Selected candidates will have to undergo training wherever prescribed and during training period only stipend will be paid as 
 applicable. 
1.14 Selected candidates have to execute Security and/or Indemnity Bond wherever necessary at the time of joining in Railway/
 Post.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 3

1.15  Ordinarily, a Railway servant shall be employed throughout his/her service on the Railway or Railway establishment to which 
 he/she is posted on first appointment and shall have no claim as a right for transfer to another railway or another establishment. 
 In the exigencies of service, however, it shall be open to the Competent Authority to transfer the Railway servant to any other 
 department or Railway or Railway establishment including a project in or out of India.
1.16  Selected candidates who are finally appointed are liable for active service in Railway Engineer’s Unit of Territorial Army.
1.17 Free Sleeper Class Railway Pass is admissible to SC/ST candidates.  SC/ST candidates who wish to avail free travel authority 
 will have to indicate ‘Yes’ in the relevant column in the ONLINE application.  For such candidates, Free Sleeper Class Railway 
 Pass will be a part of e-call letter when they are called for various stages of recruitment viz.  CBTs/DV etc., (as applicable) as 
 per the details of valid Caste Certificate uploaded by them while submitting ONLINE application. It is the responsibility of the 
 candidates availing free travel authority to give correct name of the Railway station in online application, failing which their 
 travel authority may get rejected while obtaining reservation.
 At the time of obtaining reservation and travelling, the Reservation Clerk and/or Ticket Checking Staff will ask for the original 
 SC/ST community certificate for verification of genuineness of the candidate. Any attempt to misuse this travelling 
 authority shall lead to rejection of candidature at any stage of the recruitment process including debarment for future 
 examinations.
1.18 RRBs reserve the right to incorporate any subsequent changes/ modifications/ additions in the terms & conditions of 
 recruitment under the CEN as necessitated and applicable.
1.19  RRBs may share, with the consent of the candidates, the scores obtained by them in RRB exams with other Ministries/
 Departments/Public Sector Undertakings (PSU) and Private organizations, for recruitment in their organizations. Candidates may 
 give their consent for the same, or otherwise, in the ONLINE application.
1.20 To avoid last minute rush, candidates are advised in their own interest to submit ONLINE application much before the closing 
 date, since there may be a possibility of inability/failure to log on to the website of RRB concerned on account of heavy load 
 on the internet or website during last days.
 RRBs do not accept any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their application within the last day on 
 account of aforesaid reasons or any other reason.
2.0  VACANCIES:
 The Post Parameters i.e., (Qualification, Medical Standard and Suitability of the post for PwBD etc.) of various posts included 
 in the CEN is at Annexure-A and the RRB, Railway and post wise vacancy for all the notified posts is at Annexure-B. Further, 
 candidates may please note these vacancies may increase (or) decrease as per the requirement of Railway Administration 
 (Please refer Para 1.10 General Instructions).
3.0 MEDICAL STANDARDS FOR THE POSTS:
 Candidates called for DV will have to pass requisite medical fitness test(s) conducted by the Railway Administration to ensure 
 that the candidates are medically fit to carry out the duties connected with the post(s) opted by them. Visual Acuity Standard 
 is one of the important criteria of medical fitness of Railway staff. The medical requirements against different Medical 
 Standards for different categories are outlined below:

SL.NO MEDICAL STANDARD
GENERAL 
FITNESS VISION STANDARDS

1 A-3 Physically fit in all respects

Distance Vision: 6/9, 6/9 with or without glasses (power of lenses not to exceed 2D), 

Near Vision: Sn: 0.6,0.6 with or without glasses and 

Must pass test for Colour Vision, Binocular Vision, Night Vision and Mesopic vision

2 B-1 Physically fit in all respects

Distance Vision: 6/9, 6/12 with or without glasses (power of lenses not to exceed 4D),
Near Vision: Sn: 0.6, 0.6 with or without glasses when reading or close work is required 
and Must pass test for Colour Vision, Binocular Vision, Night Vision and Mesopic vision.

3 B-2
Physically fit 

in all respects
Distance Vision: 6/9, 6/12 with or without glasses (power of lenses not to exceed 4D). 
Near Vision: Sn: 0.6, 0.6 with or without glasses when reading or close work is required 
and Must pass test for Binocular Vision.

4 C-1
 Physically fit
in all respects

Distance Vision: 6/12, 6/18 with or without glasses. 
Near Vision: Sn: 0.6, 0.6 with or without glasses when reading or close work is required.

Note: The above Medical Standards are indicative and not exhaustive and apply to candidates in general. The candidates are advised 
to read Chapter 5 of India  n Railway Medical Manual Vol.I which can be accessed at www.indianrailways.gov.in. Candidates who 
have undergone Lasik surgery or any other surgery procedure to correct refractory error are not eligible for the post having Medical 
Standards A3, B1 and B2.
Different Medical Standards shall apply to Ex-Servicemen as detailed in Para 534 of Indian Railway Medical Manual (IRMM) 
Volume I, which may be accessed at www.indianrailways.gov.in
4.0 NATIONALITY/CITIZENSHIP:
(i)  A candidate must be either:
a. a citizen of India, or
b. a subject of Nepal, or
c. a subject of Bhutan, or
d. a Tibetan refugee who came over to India, before the 1st January, 1962 with the intention of permanently settling in India, or
e. a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka, East African Countries of Kenya, Uganda, the 
 United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi, Zaire, Ethiopia and Vietnam with the intention of permanently settling in India.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 4

f. Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b), (c), (d) and (e)above shall be a person in whose favor a certificate of 
 eligibility has been issued by the Government of India.

(ii)  A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be admitted to the examination but the offer of 
 appointment may be given only after the necessary eligibility certificate has been issued to him by the Government of 
 India. 
5.  AGE LIMIT: The lower and upper age limit indicated for a particular post(s) in the vacancy table will be reckoned as on 
 01.01.2019.
5.1 Date of birth of candidates should be between the dates given below: (Both dates inclusive) 

Age Upper Limit of Date of Birth (Not Earlier than) Lower Limit of Date of Birth (Not later than)
UR OBC-Non Creamy Layer SC/ST For all Community/Categories

18 to33 02.01.1986 02.01.1983 02.01.1981 01.01.2001
However, the relaxation in upper age limit/maximum upper age for the following categories/communities is given in the table below 
subject to submission of requisite certificates.

Sl. No. COMMUNITY/CATEGORIES Community AGE RELAXATION 
1 SC/ST candidates -- 5 Years

2 OBC-Non Creamy Layer candidates -- 3 Years

3
Ex-Servicemen candidates 
who have put in more than 

6 months service after 
attestation

UR 33 Years plus Number of years of service rendered in Defence plus 3 years
OBC- NCL 

Non Creamy     
Layer

36  Years plus Number of years of service rendered in Defence plus 3 years

SC/ST 38 Years plus Number of years of service rendered in Defence plus 3 years.

4 Persons with Benchmark 
Disabilities (PwBD) 

UR 10 Years
 OBC- NCL

     Non Creamy
Layer

13 Years

SC/ST 15 Years

5

Candidates ordinarily been 
domiciled in the State of 

Jammu & Kashmir during the 
period from 01.01.1980 to 

31.12.1989

UR 38 Years
OBC- 

NCL Non 
Creamy     
Layer

41 Years

SC/ST 43 Years

6

Candidates who are serving 
Group ‘C’ and Group ‘D’ 

Railway Staff, Casual Labour 
and Substitutes and put in  

minimum of 3 years service 
(continuous or in broken 

spells)

UR 40 Years of age

OBC-
NCL Non 
Creamy     
Layer

43 Years of age

SC/ST 45 Years of age

7

Candidates who are working 
in Quasi-Administrative offices 

of the Railway organization 
such as Railway Canteens, 
Co-operative Societies and 

Institutes 

UR 33 Years plus length of service rendered or 5 years, whichever is lower.
OBC- 

NCL Non 
Creamy     
Layer

36 Years plus length of service rendered or 5 years, whichever is lower.

SC/ST 38 Years plus length of service rendered or 5 years, whichever is lower.

8

Women candidates, who are 
widowed, divorced or judicially 
separated from husband but 

not remarried.

UR 35 Years of age
OBC- 

NCL Non 
Creamy     
Layer

38 Years of age

SC/ST 40 Years of age
If a candidate is eligible for relaxation of age on more than one ground, he/she would be accorded the highest of the age re-
laxations for which he/she is eligible.
5.2 No age relaxation is allowed to SC/ST/OBC-NCL (Non Creamy Layer) candidates applying against unreserved vacancies. 
5.3  PwBD candidates applying against UR vacancies will be allowed age relaxation applicable for UR PwBD only.
5.4 Candidates should note that the date of birth filled in this application should be same as recorded in the Matriculation/SSLC or 
 an equivalent certificate. No subsequent request for its change will be considered. 
6.0  EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS:
 Candidates should have requisite Educational/Technical qualifications indicated for posts  in Annexure-A of this CEN,  from 
 recognized Board/University/institute as on the closing date for ONLINE Registration (31.01.2019). Those awaiting results of  
 the final examination of the prescribed educational/technical qualification SHOULD NOT apply. 



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 5

7.0 EXAMINATION FEE:
 Candidates applying for the posts in this CEN have to pay the prescribed fee as per their category 
 detailed below:

Sl. No. Candidate Categories Fee

1  For all candidates except the fee Concession categories mentioned below at Out of this fee of Rs 500/-
an amount of Rs 400/- shall be refunded duly deducting bank charges, on appearing in 1st Stage CBT. Rs 500/-

2 For candidates belonging to SC / ST / Ex-Servicemen / PwBDs / Female / Transgender / Minorities / 
Economically backward class.
This fee of Rs 250/- shall be refunded duly deducting bank charges as applicable, on appearing in 1st 
Stage CBT. 

Rs 250/-

7.1 MODES OF PAYMENT OF FEE:
a. ONLINE fee payment through internet banking or debit/credit cards or UPI
b. OFFLINE fee payment through
i. SBI Bank Challan Payment mode in any branch of SBI
ii. Post Office Challan Payment mode in any branch of computerized post office 
 The Offline payment will be allowed till 13:00 hrs of 04.02.2019 and Online payment will be allowed till 22:00 hrs of 05.02.2019, 
 for candidates who register for themselves till 23:59 hrs of 31.01.2019.  After making payment, these candidates should submit 
 their applications on or before 23.59 hrs of 07-02-2019. 
 All applicable service charges shall be borne by the candidate. If the fee is paid through off line mode viz (b) i & ii above, the 
 receipt should be preserved. The same should be produced on demand at the time of DV. 
7.2 Minorities include Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Zoroastrians (Parsis) subject to revision/deletion/inclusion 
 if any, received till the closing date for online registration (31.01.2019) of application for this CEN. 
 Minority candidates claiming waiver of examination fee will be required to furnish, at the time of DV, ‘Minority Community 
 Declaration’ affidavit on non-judicial stamp paper that they belong to any of the above minority communities, failing which their 
 candidature will be rejected.
7.3 Economically Backward Class (EBC) candidates are those whose annual family income is less than Rs. 50,000/-. Such 
 candidates should have valid income certificate in the prescribed format or on the letter head of the issuing authority to this effect and 
 submit the same at the time of DV as per Annexure III. Candidates having BPL Card and Izzat MST are also eligible for fee 
 concession under EBC.  Such candidates, seeking fee concession should fill in the relevant details of BPL Card and Izzat MST 
 such as Certificate number, Card number, issue date, Issuing Authority, Place and State of issue in the ONLINE application.
7.4 In case of online payment (Debit Card, Credit Card, Net Banking and UPI), the candidates should confirm if they wish to 
 receive the refundable portion of examination fee (Rs.400/- or Rs.250/- as applicable) on attending 1st Stage CBT in the account 
 from which they have made payment or alternatively provide the beneficiary account in which they wish to receive the refund 
 viz. Beneficiary Name,   Account  Number and IFSC Code. The refundable portion of examination fee shall be refunded duly 
 deducting bank charges as applicable.   The candidates who have made payment through SBI Challan or Post office Challan 
 Mode should provide details of beneficiary account in which they wish to receive the refund viz. Beneficiary name, Account 
 Number and IFSC Code. The responsibility to furnish correct bank account details lies on the candidates and RRB does not 
 entertain any correspondence from the candidate on this account.
7.5 The examination fee paid by the candidates whose application is incomplete or those who have not submitted their 
 application or whose application is rejected, will not be refunded.
8.0    VERTICAL RESERVATION: 
8.1 This CEN provides for Vertical Reservation for Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Other Backward Class 
 (OBC) Non Creamy Layer(NCL), wherever applicable and admissible, and as communicated by the Indenting Railways under 
 extant rules, as mentioned in the vacancy table.
8.2  All candidates, irrespective of community may be considered against UR vacancies, subject to fulfillment of parameters for UR 
 candidates. However against the vacancies earmarked for specific communities (SC/ST/OBC-NCL), only candidates 
 belonging to that community will be considered. 
8.3  For availing reservation, SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates should furnish valid Caste Certificate from Competent Authorities as per 
 the format given at Annexure-I (for SC/ST candidates) and Annexure-II (for OBC-NCL candidates) at the time of DV. 
 In case of OBC-NCL candidates, the certificates should specifically indicate that the candidate does not belong to the 
 Persons/Sections (Creamy Layer)’ mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule of the Government of India, Department of Personnel 
 and Training O.M.No.36012/22/93-Estt. (SCT) dated 08.09.93 & its subsequent revision through O.M.No.36033/3/2004-Estt. 
 (Res) dated 09.03.2004, 27.05.2013, 13.09.2017 and further revision if any received till the closing date for ONLINE 
 Registration (31.01.2019) of Applications for this CEN. The candidate should ensure that he/she belongs to the OBC- Non Creamy 
 Layer category while applying for the posts against this CEN. Such candidate should produce a valid OBC certificate in the 
 prescribed format during DV. Further, in addition to the Community Certificate (OBC), a declaration in the prescribed format as 
 per Annexure-IIA, has to be furnished by the candidate during DV, that he/she does not belong to the creamy layer, otherwise, 
 their claim for reserved status (OBC-NCL) will not be entertained and the candidature/application of such candidates, if fulfilling 
 all the eligibility conditions for General (Un-reserved) category, will be considered against General (UR) vacancy only. 
8.4  Candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC-NCL who fulfill required educational qualification/Technical qualifications can also apply 
 against UR vacancies. 
 They will however, have to compete with the UR candidates and will not be eligible for any relaxation including age to such SC/
 ST/OBC-NCL candidates applying against UR vacancies. However candidates have to indicate their actual community in the 
 application.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 6

8.5     Community status as on the closing date for online registration (31.01.2019) of application for this CEN shall only be 
 considered for availing reservation benefits if eligible and any change in the community status of the candidate thereafter shall not 
 be entertained.
9.0 HORIZONTAL RESERVATION: 
9.1  This CEN provides for horizontal reservation for Ex-Servicemen (ExSM) and Persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD) 
 irrespective of their community.
9.2  Vacancies for ExSM and PwBD wherever given in the vacancy table, are not separate but are included in the total number of 
 vacancies. 
9.3  Wherever vacancies for PwBD are shown separately without any community wise allotment, those vacancies are separate and 
 not part of regular vacancies.
9.4  ExSM candidates may also apply against regular vacancies of any post(s) without separate earmarked ExSM vacancies. Even 
 for these posts, they are eligible for age relaxation and fee exemption.
9.5  PwBD candidates may also apply against regular vacancies of any post(s) without separate earmarked PwBD vacancies but 
 the post must have been identified as suitable for their disability. Even for these posts, they are eligible for age relaxation and 
 fee exemption.
9.6   In case of PwBD, if vacancies reserved for them cannot be filled due to non-availability of suitable candidates under that 
 category of Disability or for any other sufficient reason, such vacancy/vacancies shall not be filled and shall be carried forward as 
 backlog vacancy.
 However, for the backlog vacancies indicated in the CEN, if candidates of specified disability for which vacancies are indicated, 
 are not available, these can be filled by candidates of other disabilities for which the post is suitable. In case of non-availability 
 of any PwBD candidates, the post will be filled by regular (those who are not PwBD) candidates in order of merit.
10.0 EX-SERVICEMEN:
10.1 The term Ex-Servicemen means a person who has served in any rank (whether as a Combatant or non-Combatant) in the 
 regular Army, Navy or Air Force of the Indian Union but does not include a person who has served in the Defence Security 
 Corps., the General Reserve Engineering Force, the Lok Sahayak  Sena and the Para Military Forces 
 and
a. Who either has been retired or relieved or discharged from such service whether at his own request or being relieved by the 
 employer after earning his or her pension; (or)
b. Who has been relieved from such service on medical grounds attributable to military service or circumstances beyond his 
 control and awarded medical or other disability pension; (or)
c. who has been released from such service as a result of reduction in establishment; (or)
d. Who has been released from such service after completing the specific period of engagement, otherwise than on his own 
 request, or by way of dismissal, or discharge on account of misconduct or inefficiency and has been given a gratuity; and 
 includes personnel of the Territorial Army, namely, pension holders for continuous embodied service or broken spells of qualifying 
 service; (or) 
e. Personnel of Army Postal Service who are part of Regular Army and retired from the Army Postal Service without reversion 
 to their parent service with pension, or are released from the Army Postal Service on medical grounds attributable to or 
 aggravated by military service or circumstances beyond their control and awarded medical or other disability pension; (or) 
f. Personnel who were on deputation in Army Postal Service for more than six months prior to 14th April 1987; (or)
g. Gallantry award winners of the Armed forces including personnel of Territorial Army; or
h. Ex-recruits boarded out or relieved on medical ground and granted medical disability pension w.e.f., 01.02.2006. 
10.2   Persons serving in the Armed Forces of the Union, who on retirement from service would come under the category of 

Ex-Servicemen are eligible to apply for re-employment one year before the completion of the specific terms of engagement and 
avail themselves of all concessions available to Ex- Servicemen but such persons shall not be permitted to leave the uniform 
until they complete the specific terms of engagement in the Armed Forces of the Union. 
Accordingly, such serving Defence personnel to be released within one year from the closing date for the ONLINE Registration 
(31.01.2019)  of  applications  for  this  CEN  (on  or  before  31.01.2020),  can  also  apply both  for  vacancies  earmarked  for 
Ex-Servicemen and for posts not reserved for them. However, they should possess the prescribed educational qualifications as on 
the closing date of registration (31.01.2019) of applications for this CEN.

10.3   Ex-Servicemen  candidates  who  have  already  secured  Civil  employment  under  Central  Government  in  Group  ‘C’  &  ‘D’
(including   PSUs,   autonomous  bodies/statutory   bodies, nationalized  banks  etc.,)  after  availing  of  the  benefits  given  to  Ex-   
Servicemen  will be  permitted only the benefit  of age  relaxation as  prescribed for Ex-Servicemen for  securing another Civil   
employment  in a higher grade  or cadre in Group ‘C/D’  under  Central  Government.  Such candidates will not be considered 
against the vacancies reserved for Ex-Servicemen in the Central Government jobs. 

10.4   If  an  Ex-Serviceman  applies  for  various  vacancies  before  joining  any  civil  employment,  he/she  can  avail  the  benefit  of 
reservation as Ex - Servicemen for any subsequent employment, subject to the condition that an Ex - Serviceman as soon as he/she 
joins any civil employment, should give self-declaration/undertaking to the concerned employer about the details of application 
against this CEN. The acknowledged copy of this declaration along with NOC from the civil employer should be produced 
during DV failing which they will not get benefit of reservation for Ex - Servicemen. Further, this benefit would be available only 
in respect of vacancies which are filled on direct recruitment and wherever reservation is applicable to the Ex - Servicemen. 

10.5   The Medical standard of Ex-Servicemen will be according to Para 534 of Indian Railway Medical Manual (IRMM) Volume-I, 
which may be accessed at www.indianrailways.gov.in.

11.0     Reservations for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD):
11.1  The suitability or otherwise of a post for PwBD has been indicated against each post, under the column “Suitability for 

Persons with Benchmark Disability” with details of sub disability in Post Parameters Table (Annexure–A).



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 7

 Benchmark Disabilities:- As per The Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016 (effective from 19th April, 2017),the 
 Benchmark Disabilities are as under:- 
 (a) Blindness and low vision;

 (b) Deaf and hard of hearing;

 (c) Locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy; 

 (d) Autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness;

 (e) Multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d) including deaf-blindness in the posts identified for 
 each disabilities.

 Definition of Specified Disabilities as provided in the Schedule of RPwD Act, 2016 is as mentioned below: 

11.2    DEFINITION OF SPECIFIED DISABILITIES: 
 1. Physical disability:- 

 A) Locomotor disability (a person’s inability to execute distinctive activities associated with movement of 
 self and objects resulting from affliction of musculoskeletal or nervous system or both), including— 

 (a) “Leprosy cured person” means a person who has been cured of leprosy but is suffering from—

 (i) loss of sensation in hands or feet as well as loss of sensation and paresis in the eye and eye-lid but with no manifest 
 deformity;

 (ii) manifest deformity and paresis but having sufficient mobility in their hands and feet to enable them to engage in normal 
 economic activity;

 (iii) extreme physical deformity as well as advanced age which prevents him/her from undertaking any gainful occupation, and 
 the expression “leprosy cured” shall construed accordingly; 

 (b) “cerebral palsy” means a Group of non-progressive neurological condition affecting body movements and muscle 
 coordination, caused by damage to one or more specific areas of the brain, usually occurring before, during or shortly after  
 birth; 

 (c) “dwarfism” means a medical or genetic condition resulting in an adult height of 4 feet 10 inches (147 centimeters) or less;

 (d) “muscular dystrophy” means a group of hereditary genetic muscle disease that weakens the muscles that move the human 
 body and persons with multiple dystrophy have incorrect and missing information in their genes, which prevents them from 
 making the proteins they need for healthy muscles. It is characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in 
 muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue;

 (e) “acid attack victims” means a person disfigured due to violent assaults by throwing of acid or similar corrosive substance.

 B) Visual impairment—

 (a) “blindness” means a condition where a person has any of the following conditions, after best correction—

 (i) total absence of sight; or

 (ii) visual acuity less than 3/60 or less than 10/200 (Snellen) in the better eye with best possible correction; or

 (iii) limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of less than 10 degree. 

 (b) “low-vision” means a condition where a person has any of the following conditions, namely:—

 (i) visual acuity not exceeding 6/18 or less than 20/60 upto 3/60 or upto 10/200 (Snellen) in the better eye with best possible 
 corrections; or

 (ii) limitation of the field of vision subtending an angle of less than 40 degree up to 10 degree. 

 C) Hearing impairment—

 (a) “deaf’ means persons having 70 DB healing loss in speech frequencies in both ears;

 (b) “hard of hearing” means person having 60 DB to 70 DB hearing loss in speech frequencies in both ears

 D) (1) “speech and language disability” means a permanent disability arising out of conditions such as laryngectomy or aphasia 
 affecting one or more components of speech and language due to organic or neurological causes.  

 (2) Intellectual disability, a condition characterized by significant limitation both in intellectual functioning (reasoning, learning, 
 problem solving) and in adaptive behaviour which covers a range of every day, social and practical skills, including—

  (a)”specific learning disabilities” means a heterogeneous group of conditions wherein there is a deficit in processing language, 
 spoken or written, that may manifest itself as a difficulty to comprehend, speak, read, write, spell, or to do mathematical 
 calculations and includes such conditions as perceptual disabilities, dyslexia, dysgraphia, dyscalculia, dyspraxia and 
 developmental aphasia;

  (b) “autism spectrum disorder” means a neuro-developmental condition typically appearing in the first three years of life that 
 significantly affects a person’s ability to communicate, understand relationships and relate to others, and is frequently 
 associated with unusual or stereotypical rituals or behaviours.

  (3) Mental behaviour— “mental illness” means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that 
 grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognize reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life, but does not 
 include retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a person, specially characterized by 
 sub normality of intelligence.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 8

(4) Disability caused due to— 

(a) chronic neurological conditions, such as—

(i) “multiple sclerosis” means an inflammatory, nervous system disease in which the myelin sheaths around the axons of nerve 
cells of the brain and spinal cord are damaged, leading to demyelination and affecting the ability of nerve cells in the brain and 
spinal cord to communicate with each other;

(ii) “Parkinson’s disease” means a progressive disease of the nervous system marked by tremor, muscular rigidity, and slow, 
imprecise movement, chiefly affecting middle-aged and elderly people associated with degeneration of the basal ganglia of the 
brain and a deficiency of the neurotransmitter dopamine. 

(b) Blood disorder— 

(i) “Haemophilia” means an inheritable disease, usually affecting only male but transmitted by women to their male children, 
characterized by loss or impairment of the normal clotting ability of blood so that a minor would may result in fatal bleeding;

(ii) “Thalassemia” means a group of inherited disorders characterized by reduced or absent amounts of hemoglobin.

(iii)  “Sickle  cell  disease”  means  a  hemolytic  disorder  characterized  by  chronic  anemia,  painful  events,  and  various 
complications   due  to  associated  tissue  and   organ  damage;  “hemolytic” refers  to  the destruction of  the  cell  membrane  of red                                                

  blood cells resulting in the release of hemoglobin.

(5) Multiple Disabilities (more than one of the above specified disabilities) including deaf, blindness which means a condition in 
which a person may have combination of hearing and visual impairments causing severe communication, developmental, and 
educational problems.

(6) Any other category as may be notified by the Central Government. 

11.3.  Degree of Benchmark Disability for reservation and Competent Authority for Issue of Disability Certificate: Only such 
persons would be eligible for relaxation in conditions/ reservation in posts who suffer from not less than 40 percent of relevant 
benchmark disability. Those Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) who have availed the relaxation and/or reservation 
and shortlisted for Document Verification have to submit Certificate of Disability issued by the Competent Authority as per the 
form V, VI and VII of rule 18(1) under chapter 7 of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 dated 15.06.2017. Refer 
Annexure V (A), V (B) and V(C) for the revised formats. The existing certificates of disability issued under the Persons with 
Disabilities Act 1995 (since repealed) shall continue to be valid for the period specified therein.

11.4  Assistance  of  Scribe: Visually  Impaired(VI)  /  candidates  whose  writing  speed  is  affected  by  Cerebral  Palsy  /muscular 
dystrophy/ candidates  with  Locomotor  disability (one arm)/Intellectual  disability  (Autism,  specific  learning  disability  and  mental 
 illness) can avail the assistance of Scribe for writing answers on their behalf. For engaging the scribe, candidates will have to
indicate the same while filling ONLINE application form. 
Engagement of Scribe will be subject to the following conditions:
a. Candidates will have to arrange for the scribe on their own.
b. The scribe so arranged should not himself/herself be the candidate for this CEN for which the candidate is appearing. Also 
same scribe should not be engaged for more than one candidate.  The scribe and the candidate shall give a declaration to this 
effect.  Any violation, if detected at any stage will render both the candidate & the Scribe disqualified.
c. Candidates opting for scribe will have to provide details of scribe as per Annexure-V(D) at the time of CBT and same shall be 
signed by both candidate and scribe. Scribe should produce original valid ID proof at CBT center, and paste pass port size 
photograph on Annexure-V(D).
d. The candidate shall be responsible for any misconduct on the part of the scribe brought by him/her during the examination. 
e.  Candidates  availing  the  assistance  of  a  scribe  shall  be  eligible  for  compensatory  time  of  20  minutes  for  every  hour of 
examination.

11.5  All one eyed candidates and candidates whose visual degree of disability is less than 40% shall not be considered as Visually 
Impaired persons and the provision for engaging scribe shall not be applicable to them.

11.6   Selected PwBD candidates will be subjected to medical examination by Railway Medical Authorities at the time of appointment 
and  only  those  conforming  to  the  medical  standards  as  laid  down  in  the  Indian  Railway  Medical  Manual  and  other  extant 
provisions, as the case may be, will be eligible for appointment.

11.7    When vacancies are reserved for PwBDs and full panel for PwBDs cannot be made with the minimum qualifying percentage 
marks  of  each  category,  viz.,  UR,  SC,  ST,  OBC-NCL,  a  relaxation  of  up  to  2% marks  in  the  minimum  qualifying  marks 
prescribed for the community will be allowed. 
Special Note for all Candidates seeking reservation/relaxation benefits: 
All  those  candidates  seeking  reservation/relaxation  benefits  available  for  SC/ST/OBC-NCL/PwBD/ExSM  must  ensure  that 
they are entitled to such reservation/relaxation as per eligibility prescribed in the Rules/CEN.  They should be in possession of 
all the requisite certificates in the prescribed format in support of their claim as stipulated in the Rules/CEN. 

12.0  NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE (NOC):
Candidates serving (including those undergoing induction training/probation) in any Central/State Government Department 
including Railways or Public Sector Undertakings may apply directly to the RRBs duly informing their Employer. Shortlisted 
candidates should produce NOC from the employer at the time of DV failing which their candidature will be cancelled.
NOTE: Candidates should note that in case a communication is received from their employer by the RRB concerned with 
holding permission to the candidates applying for/appearing at the examination, their application/candidature will be liable to be 
rejected/cancelled.

Stenos-RRB-SC
Typewriter

Stenos-RRB-SC
Typewriter



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 9

13.0 RECRUITMENT PROCESS:
 Only single online application {common to all the notified posts in opted RRB - Junior Engineer (JE), Junior Engineer 
 (Information Technology) [JE(IT)], Depot Material Superintendant (DMS) and Chemical & Metallurgical Assistant 
 (CMA)} has to be submitted by the candidate through the link provided on the official website of RRBs.
 The entire recruitment process shall involve, 1st stage Computer Based Test (CBT), 2nd stage CBT, and Document Verification/
 Medical Examination as applicable. Selection is made strictly as per merit, on the basis of CBTs.
 The date, time and venue for all the activities viz CBTs and DV or any other additional activity as applicable shall be fixed by 
 the RRB and shall be intimated to the eligible candidates in due course. Request for postponement of any of the above activity 
 or for change of venue, date and shift will not be entertained under any circumstances. 
13.1  1st Stage CBT (Common for all notified posts of this CEN): 
 Duration  : 90 minutes (120 Minutes for eligible PwBD candidates 
                                                  accompanied with Scribe) 
 No of Questions :  100   
 The 1st stage CBT is of screening nature and the standard of questions for the CBT will be generally in conformity with the 
 educational standards and/or minimum technical qualifications prescribed for the posts. The normalized score of 1st stage 
 exam shall be used only for short listing of candidates for 2nd stage exam as per their merit. Candidates who are shortlisted 
 for 2nd stage CBT availing the reservation benefits of a community, PwBD and ExSM shall continue to be considered only 
 against that community for all subsequent stages of recruitment process.
 The Questions will be of objective type with multiple choices and are likely to include questions pertaining to:
 a. Mathematics :
 Number systems, BODMAS, Decimals, Fractions, LCM and HCF, Ratio and Proportion, Percentages, Mensuration, Time and 
 Work, Time and Distance, Simple and Compound Interest, Profit and Loss, Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Elementary 
 Statistics, Square Root, Age Calculations, Calendar & Clock, Pipes & Cistern.
 b. General Intelligence and Reasoning :
 Analogies, Alphabetical and Number Series, Coding and Decoding, Mathematical operations, Relationships, Syllogism, Jum
 -bling, Venn Diagram, Data Interpretation and Sufficiency, Conclusions and Decision Making, Similarities and Differences, 
 Analytical reasoning, Classification, Directions, Statement – Arguments and Assumptions etc.
 c. General Awareness :
  Knowledge of Current affairs, Indian geography, culture and history of India including   freedom struggle, Indian Polity and 
 constitution, Indian Economy, Environmental issues concerning India and the World, Sports, General scientific and 
 technological  developments etc.
  d. General Science  :
  Physics, Chemistry and Life Sciences (up to 10th Standard CBSE syllabus).
 The section wise Number of questions and marks are as below :

Subjects
No. of 

Questions
Marks for each

Section
Stage-I Stage-I

Mathematics 30 30
General Intelligence  & Reasoning 25 25
General Awareness 15 15
General Science 30 30
Total 100 100
Time in Minutes 90

 The section wise distribution given in the above table is only indicative and there may be some variations in the actual question 
 papers.
 Minimum percentage of marks for eligibility in various categories: UR -40%, OBC-30%, SC-30%, ST -25%. These percentage 
 of marks for eligibility may be relaxed by 2% for PwBD candidates in case of shortage of PwBD candidates against vacancies 
 reserved for them.
13.2 2nd Stage CBT:
 Short listing of Candidates for the 2nd Stage CBT exam shall be based on the normalized marks obtained by them in the 1st 
 Stage CBT Exam. Total number of candidates to be shortlisted for 2nd Stage shall be 15 times the community wise total vacancy 
 of Posts notified against the RRB as per their merit in 1st Stage CBT. However, Railways reserve the right to increase/decrease 
 this limit in total or for any specific category(s) as required to ensure availability of adequate candidates for all the notified posts.
 Duration  : 120 minutes (160 Minutes for eligible PwBD candidates 
           accompanied with Scribe)
 No of Questions :  150
 Syllabus: The Questions will be of objective type with multiple choices and are likely to include questions pertaining 
 to General Awareness, Physics and Chemistry, Basics of Computers and Applications, Basics of Environment 
 and Pollution Control and Technical abilities for the post. The syllabus for General Awareness, Physics and 
 Chemistry, Basics of Computers and Applications, Basics of Environment and Pollution Control is common for all 
 notified posts under this CEN as detailed below:- 



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 10

       a) General Awareness  :
 Knowledge of Current affairs, Indian geography, culture and history of India including freedom struggle, Indian Polity and 
 constitution, Indian Economy, Environmental issues concerning India and the World, Sports, General scientific and technological 
 developments etc.
 b) Physics and Chemistry:   Up to 10th standard CBSE syllabus.
 c) Basics of Computers and Applications:  
 Architecture of Computers; input and Output devices; Storage devices, Networking, Operating  System like Windows, Unix, 
 Linux; MS Office; Various data representation;   Internet and Email; Websites & Web Browsers; Computer Virus.
 d) Basics of Environment and Pollution Control:  
 Basics of Environment; Adverse effect of environmental pollution and control strategies; Air, water and Noise pollution, their 
 effect and control;  Waste Management, Global warming; Acid rain; Ozone depletion.
 e) Technical Abilities:  
 The educational qualifications mentioned against each post shown in Annexure-A, have been grouped into different exam 
 groups as below. Questions on the Technical abilities will be framed in the syllabus defined for various Exam Groups 
 given at Annexure-VII-A, B, C, D, E, F & G.
 The section wise Number of questions and marks are as below :

Subjects
No. of Questions Marks for eachSection

Stage-II Stage-II
General Awareness  15 15
Physics & Chemistry 15 15
Basics of Computers and Applications 10 10
Basics of Environment and Pollution 
Control

10 10

Technical Abilities 100 100
Total 150 150
Time in Minutes 120

 The section wise distribution given in the above table is only indicative and there may be some variations in the actual 
 question papers.  
 Minimum percentage of marks for eligibility in various categories: UR -40%, OBC-30%, SC-30%, ST -25%. This 
 percentage of marks for eligibility may be relaxed by 2% for PwBD candidates, in case of shortage of PwBD candidates 
 against vacancies reserved for them. 
 Virtual calculator will be made available on the Computer Monitor during 2nd Stage CBT.
 Discipline Mapping Tables:-
 I) 

Sl. 
No.

Three years  Diploma in Engineering or  Bachelor’s Degree in 
Engineering/Technology Exam Group

1

Mechanical  Engineering

Mechanical and Allied

Engineering

Production Engineering
Automobile Engineering
Manufacturing Engineering
Mechatronics Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Machining Engineering 
Tools and Machining Engineering

Tools and Die Making Engineering

Combination of any sub stream of basic streams of above  disciplines

2
Electrical Engineering Electrical and Allied  

EngineeringCombination of any sub stream of basic streams of  Electrical Engineering

3

Electronics Engineering

Electronics and Allied 
Engineering

Instrumentation and Control Engineering
Communication Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering 
Computer Engineering 
Computer Science 
Information Technology 
Combination of sub streams of basic streams of above disciplines.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 11

4

Civil Engineering

Civil and Allied EngineeringCombination of any sub stream of basic streams of  Civil  Engineering

B.Sc., in Civil Engineering of 3years duration 

5 Printing Technology/Engineering Printing Technology

II)
Sl. 
No.  Educational Qualifications Exam Group

1 B.Sc., Chemistry and Physics CMA

III) 

Sl. 
No. Educational Qualifications Exam Group

1.

BE/B.Tech., (Computer Science)

Computer Science and 
Information Technology 

BE/B.Tech., (Information Technology)
PGDCA
B.Sc. Computer Science
BCA
DOEACC “B” Level Course of 3 years duration or equivalent

All the candidates with the above qualification shall be tested in the Exam Group mapped as per the above chart. However, 
candidates with educational qualification of BE/B.Tech (Computer Science) or BE/B.Tech (Information Technology), applying 
for both the posts of JE(S&T Department) and JE (IT), have to opt for either Electronics and Allied Engineering Exam Group 
or Computer Science and Information Technology Exam Group. The educational qualification for the post of DMS (Depot 
Material Superintendent) is Three Years Diploma in Engineering  i.e  a candidate with Three Years Diploma in any of 
Engineering disciplines, can apply for these posts as applicable.  Candidates with educational qualifications not  figuring in 
the above chart and eligible for DMS posts have to choose any one of the above listed Exam Groups other than CMA Exam 
Group, during the registration for online applications of this CEN. 

A candidate possessing more than one minimum educational qualification, mapped to different Exam Groups, can choose 
 any one Exam Group. These candidates would be eligible for all the posts for which they possess minimum educational 
 qualifications. 
14.0  SHORTLISTING OF CANDIDATES FOR 2nd STAGE CBT, DV AND EMPANELMENT:
 Short listing of Candidates for the DV shall be based on the normalized marks obtained by them in 2nd Stage CBT.  The 
 normalization scheme to be adopted for short listing the candidates from 1st Stage CBT to 2nd Stage CBT and for DV on the 
 basis of performance in 2nd Stage CBT is detailed below:
14.1  NORMALISATION OF THE MARKS:
 Whenever CBT is conducted in multiple sessions for the same syllabus, the raw marks obtained by the candidates in different 
 sessions will be converted to normalized marks.  
 The raw marks for single session paper and normalized marks for multi session paper will be used for computing Merit Index, 
 which is a common benchmark for generating merit for candidates from different Exam Groups.   
14.2    CALCULATION OF NORMALIZED MARKS FOR MULTI-SESSION PAPERS:
 In 1st Stage CBT and for some Exam Groups in 2nd Stage CBT, the examination may be conducted in multi-sessions. Hence, 
 for these multisession papers, a suitable normalization is applied to take into account any variation in the difficulty levels of the 
 question papers across different sessions.  
 The formula for calculating the normalized marks for the multi-session papers is detailed below:
 Normalization mark of jth candidate in ith session        is given by :

 jiM :  is the actual marks obtained by the jth candidate in ith session.

 
g
tM :  is the average marks of the top 0.1% of the candidates considering all sessions.

 
g
qM :  is the sum of mean and standard deviation marks of the candidates in the paper considering all sessions.

 tiM :   is the average marks of the top 0.1% of the candidates in the ith session or marks of topper if session strength is less  
             than 1000. 

 iqM :  is the sum of the mean marks and standard deviation of the ith session.

� ( )j
g g
t q g

i ij iq q
ti iq

M M
M M M M

M M
−

−
= +

−

Mij

Mij



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 12

14.3  CALCULATION OF MERIT INDEX FOR ALL PAPERS : 
 In order to generate a common merit list comprising of candidates who gave examination from different Exam Groups, but 
 eligible for a common post, merit index will be computed.  For all papers for which there is only one session, actual marks  
 obtained by the candidates will be used for calculating Merit Index, while for papers in multi-sessions, normalized marks will be 
 calculated corresponding to the raw marks obtained by a candidate and the Merit Index  will be calculated based on the 
 normalized marks.
 The Merit Index will be computed using the formula given below :

 Merit Index  = Sq+(St -Sq) 

 (Merit Index is the relative score of a candidate within the discipline.) 
 M: Marks obtained by the candidate (actual/raw marks for single session exam and normalized marks for multi session exam.
 Mq: The qualifying marks for general category candidate in the paper (40).

 tM : The mean marks of top 0.1% or top 10 whichever is larger of the candidates who appeared in the paper (in case of 
 multi session exam including all sessions)
 Sq: 350 is the score assigned to Mq.

 St: 900 is the score assigned to tM . 
 The qualifying marks (Mq) for general category candidate is 40.
 The Merit Index will be calculated for UR, OBC, SC, ST candidates whose actual marks for single session exam and 
 normalized marks for multi session exam are equal or above the community qualifying marks prescribed in Para 13.2. Based on the 
 Merit Index generated, a combined merit list of the candidates of different disciplines/Exam Group will be prepared in the 
 descending order of merit and the allotment of the preference will be done on the basis of this merit list.
14.4  Candidates equal to the number of vacancies will be called for DV based on their merit in 2nd Stage CBT and options. In 
 addition, extra candidates will also be called over and above the number of vacancies to maintain standby list up to 50% of the 
 vacancies notified. They will, however, be considered for empanelment only if there is a shortfall in empanelment from the 
 merit list or/and as replacement against the shortfall on account of non-joining of recommended candidates in the working post 
 or/and any other special requirements, if required by the indenting Railways.  In case of two or more candidates securing same 
 marks, their merit position shall be determined by age criteria i.e., older person shall be placed at higher merit and in case age 
 being same, then alphabetical order (a to z) of the name shall be taken into account to break the tie.
 Appointment of selected candidates is subject to their passing requisite Medical Fitness Test to be conducted by the Railway 
 Administration, final verification of educational and community certificates and verification of antecedents/character of the 
 candidates.
 Candidates may please note that RRBs only recommend names of the empanelled candidates and appointment is offered 
 ONLY by the respective Railway Administrations.
15.0 HOW TO APPLY:
a)   Candidates can apply for the notified posts of any one RRB as per their eligibility only through ONLINE application mode 
 by visiting the official website of RRBs listed at Para 20.0 
b) Read all the Information and Instructions detailed in the CEN thoroughly before starting the filling up of application by 
 clicking the CEN.03/2018 Link on the RRB Website. It is essential that the candidate understands all information of the CEN 
 correctly to prevent any mistakes while filling application.
c) Scanned Documents in JPEG Format to be kept ready before filling the application
 In order to ensure speedy filling up of application by the candidates, they should keep the following documents in digital form 
 before logging into the application page.
i. Candidate Photograph in Color: JPEG image of size 20KB to 50KB
ii. Candidate Signature: JPEG image of size 10KB to 40KB
iii. SC/ST Certificate (Only for candidates seeking Free Travel Pass): JPEG image of size 50 to 100KB
d) Check RRB-Wise Vacancies for the qualification and Reservation Category of the candidate: The candidates are 
 advised to check the post parameter table and vacancy table in this CEN to ascertain the vacancies notified against all RRBs 
 for their qualification (Degree/Diploma) and ensure that the RRB to which they wish to fill in the online application is having 
 vacancy for their discipline and community/category subject to eligibility in terms of age and medical standards. 
e) Further for identifying post parameters and RRB-Wise vacancies dynamically as per their eligibility click on the Tabs for post 
 parameter and vacancy table and follow as below:
i) Post Parameter:-From the post parameter table candidate can ascertain the post(s) for which he/she is eligible as per 
 qualification, categories like PwBD, and medical standards etc. 
ii)  Vacancy Table:- To ascertain the comprehensive details of vacancy of all the  posts notified against an RRB for his/her 
 eligibility , candidate may select the RRB from the drop down list of RRBs from search menu and can view the vacancies of all 
 the notified posts against various Railways/Units attached to that RRB on selecting the eligibility parameters. 
iii) After scrutinizing the vacancy table, candidates may decide the RRB for which they wish to apply duly ensuring that vacancy 
 exists for their qualification and community/PwBD/ExSM category. Once the RRB has been selected, preliminary 
 registration is completed and registration number is allotted, change of RRB will not be permitted under any 
 circumstances.
 

q

t q

M M
M M

−
−



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 13

f) Candidates are required to go to the link provided for filling ONLINE application and fill up the personal details/Bio-Data, fee 
 paid etc., carefully.  They are also required to exercise their option/preference for Post(s), Railway(s)/Production Unit(s).
g) CANDIDATES PLEASE NOTE:
i) Multiple posts and other requirements have been notified in this CEN.  The candidates are required to indicate their 
 Post-wise and Railway/PU-wise preferences very carefully. Options once exercised in the ONLINE Application shall 
 be final and no request for change shall be entertained.  Therefore, candidates are advised to be careful in exercise 
 of option for Post(s) and Railway(s)/PU(s). RRBs will allot the post and the Railway/Production Unit to the selected 
 candidates as per the preference of the candidates subject to merit and vacancy position.  However in case of 
 administrative exigencies/requirements, RRBs reserve the right to allot any post/Railway subject to the suitability of the 
 candidate(s).
ii) Candidates with partial option will be considered only for the specific categories opted by them since non-option for 
 certain categories or all categories would indicate their unwillingness for the same
iii) Candidates are advised to keep their personal mobile number and personal valid e-mail ID active throughout the 
 recruitment process, as all communications from RRBs will be sent only through SMS/e-mail. RRBs will not entertain any 
 request for change of mobile number and e-mail address at any stage. Candidates are advised to note and preserve their 
 Registration Number for further stages of recruitment process/ correspondence with RRB concerned.
 Candidates are further advised to visit website(s) of RRBs frequently to get the latest information on various stages 
 of recruitment process or any changes about this CEN. 
 The onus is on the candidates to prove with valid documents that all the information submitted by them in the ONLINE 
 application is true.
15.1 STEPS TO SUBMIT ONLINE APPLICATION:
 After completing the process at Para 15.0 a, b, c & d above and carry out the following:
a) Select the RRB to which you wish to apply. Please be aware that, RRB once selected cannot be changed after the 
 preliminary registration is completed and Registration number is allotted.
b) Confirm that you have read and understood the instructions clearly by clicking the check box. Click on the “New 
 Registration”
c) Registration Details: Enter your name, Date of Birth and Father’s name as per Para 1.7 of General Instructions, Mother’s 
 Name, Aadhaar Number, SSLC/Metric/ITI Roll Number, Year of Passing, Mobile Number and e-mail-ID and then submit for 
 registration. Before submitting for registration, ensure and confirm that all the information furnished above are correct 
 as the details furnished for registration cannot be changed later. Please note that the email ID used for the 
 Registration must be yours and unique. Also note that both the email and Mobile Number will be verified during the Online 
 Application process with a One Time Password (OTP).
d) Verification of email ID and mobile number through OTP: On submitting the primary details, the Registration Number 
 and Password shall be displayed to the candidate.  Also, OTPs shall be sent to the registered Mobile Number and 
 e-mail along with the Registration details.   The candidate should retrieve the OTPs from e-mail and Mobile and then 
 enter OTPs to proceed with the filling up of application and to make payment.  
 Candidate should note and preserve their Registration Number for later reference during the recruitment process and RRB 
 will not entertain any request seeking registration number. 
e) Candidates can proceed with the online application by clicking on the “Already Registered” Button on the Home Page using 
 the Registration Number and password.
f) In the Part 1 application page, provide the details of Educational Qualification, Community, Gender, Religion, Ex SM, PWD, 
 Minority, Economically Backward Class and Age Relaxation eligibility category as applicable and other details.
g)  In the part II application page, fill in details of:
i.  Exam Group:-If candidate is eligible to more than one  exam group, He/she has to opt any one of them. For others, the eligible 
  Exam group is displayed. 
ii. Set priority / preferences for posts:  If the candidate is eligible for more than one post based on his/her educational 
 qualification and other details furnished, he/she must set the priority/preferences for these posts. The list of posts (in the chosen 
 RRB) for which a candidate is eligible is displayed. Similarly, if the chosen RRB has vacancies for more than one Railway/
 Production Unit, then vacancies for all such Railways / Production Units for which a candidate is eligible, will be listed out.  The 
 candidate should fill their priority/ preferences number in the textbox   against each post that they are eligible for, in the RRB they 
 are applying to.
h) Payment and Bank Account details :  
i. On completion of application details as above, the candidate will be directed to the payment page to choose payment mode 
 i.e Bank (Online Net Banking/Credit Card/Debit Card/UPI and Offline Challan) or Post Office Challan as explained in Para 7.1 
 and complete the payment process. Chose the mode of payment and compete the payment process.  Please note the last date 
 and time specified for each mode of payment and submit the application well in time.
ii. Those paying through Bank-offline mode, the payment confirmation may take 2 hours and hence they have to again login after  
 2 hours and look for confirmation of payment status. 
iii. The time period for payment confirmation shall vary from 24 hrs to 48 hrs in case of Post Office payment.
i) Scribe for PwBD Candidates:  Indicate option for Scribe if you are a PwBD candidate eligible for Scribe.  Only the candidates 
 suffering from Visually Impaired (VI)/candidates whose writing speed is affected by loco motor disability (one arm) are eligible for 
 availing Scribe against this CEN.
j) Detailed Educational Qualification: Furnish all the relevant information on the qualification as required in the application
k) Choice of Exam Language:- English is the default language. In case the candidate wishes to choose any other language, 
 then the same can be selected from the drop down list of languages. The languages listed are Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, 
 Hindi, Kannada, Konkani, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Odiya, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.  In case of any difference/
 discrepancy/dispute in the Questions between English and the opted language, the content of English version shall 
 prevail.
l) Complete the balance fields e.g. Mother Tongue, Moles/Identification Marks, Address etc., 



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 14

 m) Bank Account details for Refund:- Candidate who attend the examination are eligible for refund of examination fee. All 
 candidates who have given the confirmation to receive their refund to the account from which they have made the application fee 
 payment, need not fill these details and hence, this will not be visible for them.  Only those candidates who have not opted for 
 refund to their fee paid account as above should provide the details of Beneficiary Account in which they wish to receive the 
 refund viz. Beneficiary Name, Account Number and IFSC Code in the Online Application.
n) Candidates may give their consent for sharing the scores obtained by them in RRB exams with other Ministries/Departments/
 PSUs and Private organizations, for recruitment in their organizations.
o) Photograph and Signature Upload :
 1. Candidate will be automatically directed to ‘Photo and Signature Upload’ part of the application.
 2. Select the Upload Photo tab and upload your colour photograph. The photograph should comply with the following 
 requirements,
3.  SPECIFICATIONS FOR PHOTOGRAPH :
 a. It should be a Colour Passport Photograph with white/light color back ground. 
 b. It should be of size 35mmX45mm or 320 x 240 pixels.
 c. It should be in JPG/JPEG format scanned with 100 DPI resolution.
 d. The size of the photograph should be between 20-50KB.
 e. The color photograph must have been taken on or after 01-10-2018 in a professional studio. Photographs taken 
 using mobile and self-composed portraits may result in rejection of application.
 f. The photo should have clear front view of the candidate without cap and sunglasses. 
 g. The face should occupy at least 50% of the area of the photograph with a full face view looking at the camera directly. 
 h. The main features of the face must not be covered by hair of the head any cloth or any shadow.
 i. Fore head, eyes, nose and chin should be clearly visible.
 j. In case the candidate wears glasses, then the photograph should not have any glare/reflections on glasses and eyes should 
 be clearly visible.   
 k.The Photograph must match with the candidate appearance on the days of CBT and DV.
 l. PwBD candidates should also upload passport photograph as per above specifications only and not the full body photograph 
 used in the disability certificate.
 m. Candidates are advised to keep at least 12 (Twelve) copies of the same photograph for further use as and when required 
 during the recruitment process. 
4. Select upload Signature Tab and upload your Scanned Signature.  The signature image should comply with the 
 following specifications. 
5. Specification for Signature Image : 
 a. The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen with in a box of size 50mm x 20mm. 
 b. Signature must be in running letters and NOT IN BLOCK LETTERS.
 c. The image should be in JPG/JPEG format scanned with 100 DPI resolution.
 d. Dimensions of 50mm x 20mm or 140 x60 pixels (preferred). 
 e. Size of file should be between 10KB —40KB. 
 f. Notes : -
 1. The signature must be signed only by the applicant and not by any other person.
 2. The applicants signature obtained during registration and at the time of CBTs/DV/Medical should match the uploaded 
      signature.
 3. In case it is found that there is a mismatch of signature, the candidate may be disqualified, legal prosecution will be initiated 
 and the candidate will be debarred for life from appearing in railway recruitments (RRBs/RRCs).
6. SCANNING AND RESIZING OF THE PHOTOGRAPH AND SIGNATURE: 
 a. Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 100 dpi (dots per inch). 
 b. Set Color to True Color.  File Size as specified above. 
 c. Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the photograph/signature, then use the upload editor to crop the image to the 
 final size (as specified above).
 d. The image file should be in JPG or JPEG format. An example file name is: image01.jpg or image01.jpeg.
 e. Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder files or moving the mouse over the file image icon. Candidates can 
 easily obtain photo and signature in .jpeg format not exceeding 50KB & 40KB respectively by using MS Paint or MS Office 
 Picture Manager. 
 f. Scanned photograph and signature in any format can be saved in .jpg format by using ‘Save As’ option in the File menu and 
 size can be reduced below 50KB (photograph) & 40KB (signature) by using crop and then resize option in the ‘Image’ menu. 
 Similar options are available in other photo editors also.
p) SC/ST Certificate Upload :  
 Candidates belonging to SC/ST Community who have opted to avail Free Rail Travel, have to upload scanned copy of their SC/
 ST Certificates (JPG/JPEG format, 50KB – 100KB) also for availing the facility of Free Travel Authority (Second Class Railway 
 Pass).
 CARE :  If the file size and format for photograph, signature and SC/ST Community Certificate are not as prescribed, 
 an error message will be displayed.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 15

q) Submission of Application :  
 In the end candidates have to confirm the declaration “I hereby declare that I have gone through the eligibility criteria for 
 the post(s) applied for and meet all the requirements therein, that all the details furnished by me in the application are 
 true and complete to the best of my knowledge & belief and nothing has been concealed or suppressed. I also 
 understand that in case, any of the details furnished is found untrue during any stage of recruitment or thereafter RRB 
 shall disqualify me for the post(s) applied for and /or I shall be liable for any other action under the extant rules”. 
 After confirming the above declaration and submission of the application, the candidate may save the file as “PDF” and/or take 
 print of the application and preserve it for reference and record.
15.2     MODIFICATION OF APPLICATION:
 a)  After final submission of ONLINE application, in case the candidates wish to make minor changes to correct inadvertent  errors 

in the application, the correction of data other than RRB, email and mobile number can be done by paying the modification fee of 
Rs.100/- (Non-Refundable). The modification fee shall be applicable to all candidates including fee concession categories and this 
fee is not refundable for any category. 

 b) In the case of a candidate modifying his community from SC/ST to UR or OBC, he will have to pay the difference in examination fee i.e.,
Rs.250/- in addition to the modification fee.   In case of failure to do so, his modified application will not be accepted.

 c) Similarly, if a candidate is switching from Ex.SM/PwBD/Female/Transgender to UR/OBC Non.Ex.SM/Non PwBD/ Male etc., he 
will have to pay the difference in examination fee i.e., Rs.250/- in addition to the modification fee.  In case of failure to do so, his 
modified application will not be accepted.

 d. The modification to the registration and application details can be done twice only. 
 e. CAUTION: Candidates who wish to modify their application, they are advised to do the same sufficiently well in advance of the 

closing date and time of the CEN. In case, due to last minute congestion, if the modifications attempt fails at any stage, and the 
modification carried out have not been saved or not submitted in time, the earlier information furnished in the application shall be 
considered and no correspondence on this subject shall be entertained. 

 f. The RRB, email id and mobile number cannot be changed. 
 g. The step by step procedure for modification of the application shall be as below: 
  i. Login using Registration Number and Password 
  ii. Pay modification fee through any of the modes available for actual examination fee payment. Ensure payment is done well 

 within the date and time prescribed. 
  iii. Click on the ‘Modify Application’ Button. 
  iv. Proceed with the changes intended as per instructions given and submit the application. Preserve the print out of latest 

 application for record.
15.3 INVALID APPLICATIONS / REJECTIONS: 
 Online applications are liable for rejection on the following grounds amongst others:
 a. Invalid photos such as Black and White photo, photo wearing cap and/or Goggles, photos which are disfigured, small size 
 photo, full body photo, photo showing only one side view of the face, unrecognizable photos, photostat copy of photo, group 
 photo, selfie photo, photo taken by mobile, morphed photo  and blank photo among others.
 b. Signature in capital/block letters.
 c. Multiple applications to different RRBs and/or multiple applications to one RRB.  In such case, all applications will be rejected 
 and such candidates will also be debarred from future RRB/RRC exams.
 d. Candidate’s name figuring in the debarred list of any RRB/RRC.
 e. Any other irregularity which is observed and considered as invalid by RRB.  
 NOTE:  Candidates can verify their status of application from the websites of RRBs.  In case the application is rejected, candidates will 
 be able to view their status along with the reason(s) for rejection(s) which is final and binding and no further correspondence 
 shall be entertained on the subject. No refund of examination fee will be made on account of rejection of application. SMS 
 and e-mail alerts shall also be sent to the candidates on their registered mobile numbers and e-mail IDs, as indicated in their 
 ONLINE application. Candidates will not be intimated by post.
16.0 HALL TICKET (e-CALL LETTER) FOR CBT:
16.1  SMS and email messages will be sent to all eligible candidates about the e-Call letter and upload details on their registered 
 mobile number and email ID.   However, candidates should regularly visit the website of RRB as there can be failure in delivery 
 of SMS/E-mail to the candidates due to reasons beyond control of RRBs.
16.2  Eligible candidates can download e-Call letter along with Annexure V(D) (declaration for scribe, wherever applicable) from the 
 RRBs websites about 10 days before the date of the CBT/Document Verification (as applicable).
 Call letter will not be sent to candidates by post. 
16.3 Candidates should read the instructions on the e-Call letter carefully and follow them 
 scrupulously. Failure to comply with the instructions may lead to cancellation of their candidature.
16.4 In case of SC/ST candidates who opted for free rail travel facility and uploaded their valid caste certificate for availing the 
 benefit of free travel authority (Sleeper Class Railway Pass), the e-call letter for CBT / DV (as applicable) will contain the free 
 travel authority and such candidates will be allowed to book ticket on submission of self attested photo copy of e-call letter 
 and SC/ST Certificate. During the journey, these candidates should carry original SC/ST Certificate and one original prescribed 
 proof of identity for undertaking journey failing which they will be treated as travelling without ticket and charged accordingly.
16.5  Candidates must bring their e- Call letter along with a valid Photo ID (viz. Voter Card, Aadhaar Card, printout of e-Aadhaar 
 (not Xerox copy of Aadhaar), Driving License, PAN card, Passport, Identity Card issued by the employer in case the candidate 
 is a Govt. employee, School / College / University Photo ID card) in ORIGINAL to the examination hall, failing which candidates 
 shall NOT be allowed to appear for the CBT/DV (as applicable).  The name, date of birth and photo on ID should match with 
 the details furnished in the online application, failing  which, the candidate may not be permitted to appear in CBT/DV.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 16

16.6  Candidates must also bring one colour photograph (of size 35mm x 45mm) which was uploaded in the application, for 
 appearing in the CBT/DV (as applicable). 
16.7   Candidates should leave blank spaces provided in the downloaded e-Call letter for writing self declaration paragraph (as the 
 paragraph is displayed on the screen during CBT), signature and Left Thumb Impression (LTI) unfilled while coming for the 
 exam.
 Warning: Candidates will have to write the paragraph of self Declaration, sign and affix LTI at the venue of the CBT in 
 the presence of the invigilator at the Examination hall ONLY and hand over the same to the invigilator before the 
 conclusion of the examination. Candidates writing the self-declaration paragraph and/or Signing in CAPITAL letters 
 will be rejected.
16.8  RRB(s) will not entertain any request for any change in examination centre, date and session allotted to candidate(s).
17.0   VERIFICATION OF ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS AND FORMAT OF CERTIFICATES:
17.1 Candidates shortlisted for DV are required to produce all original documents along with two sets of self-attested photo copies 
 of all documents at the time of DV. Further, these candidates should upload the scanned copies (in true color) of all the 
 certificates as applicable prior to their DV date through www.rrbdv.in portal.
17.2 All Certificates should be either in English or Hindi only. Where certificates are not in English/Hindi, self-attested translated 
 version (In Hindi/English) should be produced wherever/whenever required. Certificates produced during the DV should be 
 strictly in the prescribed formats. 
17.3  No additional time will be given to the candidates not producing their original certificates on date of their DV and the 
 candidature of such candidates is liable to be forfeited.
17.4 Documents to be brought by candidates in original (as applicable) for verification are as indicated below:-
17.4.1 Matriculation/High School Examination Certificate or Equivalent certificate as Proof for Date of Birth. (The candidates’ name 
 and the father/ mothers’ name mentioned in the application will be verified with reference to the names mentioned in this 
 certificate.)
17.4.2    10 +2 / Inter / Higher Secondary/PUC (As applicable)
17.4.3 Diploma / Engineering/Science Degree Certificate with Semester wise Mark Sheets (As applicable).
17.4.4 SC/ST certificate in the format as per Annexure - I.
17.4.5 OBC-NCL certificate in the format as per Annexure - II  
17.4.6  Non creamy layer declaration by OBC candidates as per Annexure II A
17.4.7 Income Certificate for Waiving Examination Fee for Economically Backward Classes as per Annexure – III.
17.4.8 Minority Community declaration on Non - judicial Stamp Paper as per Annexure - IV.
17.4.9   Original discharge certificate for Ex-servicemen.
17.4.10    Medical Certificate for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) as per Annexures –V(A),V(B),V(C) as applicable
17.4.11 Self declaration for Ex-servicemen as per Annexure -VI
17.4.12 NOC from serving employees with date of appointment.
17.4.13 NOC from Serving Defence Personnel with probable date of discharge.
17.4.14 Gazette notification and/or any Legal document in case of formal change of name as mentioned in Para 1.7. 
17.4.15 Receipt of payment if made through a Challan at SBI branch or Pay-in-slip at computerized Post Office.
17.4.16 Self Certification by the Transgender candidates
17.4.17 J & K domicile certificate.
 Certificate of eligibility has been issued by the Government of India, as per para 4(f)
17.4.18 Decree of divorce/judicial separation from the competent Court of Law as applicable and Affidavit stating that the candidate has
 not remarried.
17.4.19 Death Certificate in case of widow and Affidavit stating that the candidate has not remarried.
17.4.20 Ex-Servicemen candidates who secure civil employment after applying for this CEN should give self declaration to the 
 concerned employer about the details of application against this CEN, as soon as they join. The acknowledged copy of this 
 declaration along with NOC from the civil employer should be produced during DV. 
 NOTES:-
 1. Candidates who wish to be considered against vacancies reserved / or seek age-relaxation must submit the requisite/
 relevant certificate in original from the competent authority, in the prescribed format at the time of DV. Otherwise, their claim for 
 SC/ST/OBC-NCL/ExSM/PwBD status will not be entertained and their candidature/ applications will be considered under 
 General (UR) category, if eligible. The certificates should be as per the formats annexed. 
 2. The Educational Qualification Certificates viz Provisional or regular Degree/Diploma should contain the date of issue. In 
 case, date of issue of these certificates is after the closing date of the CEN, then the consolidated mark sheet with date of 
 declaration of the result of final qualifying exam or individual mark sheets of all the semesters with date of declaration of result 
 of each semester should be submitted. In case of non-availability of date in any of these certificates, then a certificate from the 
 Institution/University to this effect (indicating date of declaration of result) should be produced at the time of DV.
18.0 IMPERSONATION / SUPPRESSION OF FACTS - WARNING:
18.1 Any candidate found using unfair means of any kind in the examination, sending someone else in his/her place to appear in 
 the examination, attempt to impersonate will be debarred from appearing in all the examinations of all the RRBs/RRCs for 
 lifetime. He/she will also be debarred from getting any appointment in the Railways and if already appointed, will be dismissed 
 from service. Such candidates are also liable for legal prosecution.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 17

18.2 Furnishing of any false information to the RRB or deliberate suppression of any information at any stage will render the 
 candidate disqualified and debarred from appearing at any selection or examination for appointment on the Railways or to any other 
 Government service and if appointed the service of such candidate is liable to be terminated.
18.3  Candidates found submitting forged/fake certificates/documents of any kind for securing eligibility and/or obtaining privileges, 
 including free travel for appearing in the examination shall lead to rejection of their candidature for the particular recruitment for 
 which he/she has applied. Further, he/she will also be debarred from all examinations conducted by all RRBs/RRCs all over 
 the country for a period of 2 years/for life as deemed fit and legal action will be initiated, if warranted.
18.4   Candidate shall not bring in or attempt to bring in any political or other influence to further his/her interest in respect of the 
 recruitment. Candidature of such candidates is liable to be rejected.
19.0 MISCELLANEOUS:
19.1  RRBs reserve the right to conduct additional CBT/ DV (as applicable) at any stage without assigning any reason. 
 RRBs also reserve the right to cancel any part or whole of the recruitment process at any stage for any or all of the categories 
 notified in this CEN without assigning any reason thereof.
19.2 The decision of RRBs in all matters relating to eligibility, acceptance or rejection of ONLINE applications, issue of free Rail 
 Passes, penal action for false information, modification of vacancies, mode of selection, conduct of CBT, allotment of 
 examination centers, selection, allotment of posts to selected candidates etc., will be final and binding on the candidates and 
 no enquiry or correspondence will be entertained by the RRBs in this regard.
19.3 RRBs will not be responsible for any inadvertent errors and reserves right to correct such errors.
19.4 Any legal issues arising out of this CEN shall fall within the legal jurisdiction of respective Central Administrative Tribunals 
 under which the RRB chosen by the candidate is located. 
19.5 In the event of any dispute about interpretation, the English version of the CEN as published in RRB websites will be treated 
 as final.

20.0  Details of various RRBs, their Website Address are indicated below:-

Name of RRB Website Address and Telephone Numbers Name of RRB
Website Address and 
Telephone Numbers

Ahmedabad www.rrbahmedabad.gov.inPhone: 079 – 22940858 Guwahati
www.rrbguwahati.gov.in
Phone: 0361 – 2540815

Ajmer www.rrbajmer.gov.inPhone: 0145 – 2425230 Jammu – Srinagar
www.rrbjammu.nic.in

Phone: 0191 – 2476757

Allahabad www.rrbald.gov.inPhone: 0532 – 2224531 Kolkata
www.rrbkolkata.gov.in

Phone: 033 – 25430108

Bangalore

www.rrbbnc.gov.in

Phone: 080 – 23330378
Malda www.rrbmalda.gov.inPhone: 03512 – 264567

Phone: 080 – 23334147 Mumbai www.rrbmumbai.gov.inPhone: 022 – 23090422

Bhopal www.rrbbhopal.nic.inPhone: 0755 – 2746660 Muzaffarpur
www.rrbmuzaffarpur.gov.in

Phone: 0621 – 2213405

Bhubaneswar www.rrbbbs.gov.inPhone: 0674 – 2303015 Patna
www.rrbpatna.gov.in

Phone: 0612 – 2677680

Bilaspur www.rrbbilaspur.gov.inPhone: 07752 - 247291 Ranchi
www.rrbranchi.gov.in

Phone: 0651 - 2462429 

Chandigarh www.rrbcdg.gov.in Phone: 0172 – 2730093 Secunderabad
www.rrbsecunderabad.nic.in

Phone: 040 – 27821663

Chennai www.rrbchennai.gov.inPhone: 044 – 28275323 Siliguri
www.rrbsiliguri.org

Phone: 0353 – 2663840

Gorakhpur www.rrbgkp.gov.inPhone: 0551 – 2201209 Thiruvananthapuram
www.rrbthiruvananthapuram.gov.in

Phone: 0471-2323357



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 18

21.0   Abbreviations used in this CEN:

Stages of Recruitment 
Process  CBT: Computer  Based Test,  DV: Document Verification

Reservation /Age 
relaxation  Category

EBC = Economically Backward Class, ExSM = Ex-Servicemen, OBC-CL= Other Backward Classes- 
Creamy Layer, OBC- NCL = Other Backward Classes - Non Creamy Layer, SC = Scheduled Caste, 

ST = Scheduled Tribe, UR = Unreserved (General)

Disabilities

R-VI=Regular Visually Impaired, R-HI = Regular Hearing Impaired, R-LD = Regular Locomotor 
Disabilities, R-OD = Regular Other Disabilities, R-MD = Regular Multiple Disabilities, B-VI=Backlog 

Visually Impaired, B-HI = Backlog Hearing Impaired, B-LD = Backlog Locomotor Disabilities, 
B-OD = Backlog Other Disabilities, B-MD = Backlog Multiple Disabilities,  AAV=Acid Attack Victim, 
ASD=Autism Spectrum Disorder,  B=Blind, BL=Both Legs, D=Deaf, DW=Dwarfism, HH=Hard of 
Hearing, HI=Hearing Impairment, ID= Intellectual Disability, LC=Leprosy Cured, LD=Locomotor 
Disability, LV=Low Vision, MD=Muscular Dystrophy, MW= Muscular Weakness, OA=One Arm, 

OL=One Leg, OAL=One Arm & One Leg,  PwBD=Persons With Benchmark Disabilities, RPwD = 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities, SLD=Speech and Language Disability, VI=Visually Impairment.

Railway Zones/
Organizations

CLW=Chittarnjan Locomotive Works, Chittaranjan; CR=Central Railway, DLW=Diesel Locomotive 
Works, Varanasi; DMW=Diesel loco Modernization Works, Patiyala; ER=Eastern Railway,  

ECR=East Central Railway, ECoR=East Coast Railway, ICF=Integral Coach Factory, Chennai; 
NR=Northern Railway, NCR=North Central Railway, NER= North Eastern Railway, NFR=Northeast 
Frontier Railway, NWR=North Western Railway, PSU=Public Sector Undertaking, PU=Production 
Unit,  RCF=Rail Coach Factory, Kapurtala; RDSO=Research Design and Standards Organization, 

Lucknow; Rly=Railway, RRB=Railway Recruitment Board, RRC=Railway Recruitment Cell,RWF=Rail 
Wheel Factory, Bengaluru; RWP= Rail Wheel Plant, Bela; SR=Southern Railway, SCR=South 

Central Railway, SER=South Eastern Railway, SECR=South East Central Railway, SWR= South 
Western Railway, WR=Western Railway, WCR=West Central Railway.

Railway Recruitment 
Boards (RRBs)

ADI=Ahmedabad, AII=Ajmer, ALD=Allahabad, BB=Mumbai, BBS=Bhubaneshwar, BPL=Bhopal, 
BSP=Bilaspur, CDG=Chandigarh, GKP=Gorakhpur, GHY=Guwahati, JAT=Jammu Srinagar, 
KOL=Kolkata, MAS=Chennai, MLD=Malda, MFP=Muzaffarpur, PNBE=Patna, RNC=Ranchi, 

SBC=Bengaluru, SC=Secunderabad, SGUJ=Siliguri, TVC=Thiruvananthapuram.

General

CBSE=Central Board of Secondary Education; CEN=Centralized Employment Notice, DYN BG 
MG=Dynamic Broad Gauge and Meter Gauge, ED=Engine Development, EMU=Electric Multiple 
Unit, GP = Grade Pay, IFSC=Indian Financial System Code, JPEG= Joint photographic Experts 

Group, KB=Kilo byte, LTI=Left Thumb Impression, MP=Motive Power, OTP=One Time Password, 
S&T=Signal and Telecommunications, TI=Traction Installation, TRD=Traction Distribution, 

TRS=Traction Supply, UPI=Unified Payments Interface.

Institutions/Council/ 
Certificates

BCA = Bachelor of Computer Applications, BE= Bachelor of Engineering, B.Sc., = Bachelor of 
Science, B.Tech= Bachelor of Technology, CMA= Chemical & Metallurgical Assistant, DMS= Depot 

Material Superintendent, DOEACC “B”= Department of Electronics Accreditation for Computer 
Course-“B”, IT= Information Technology, JE= Junior Engineer, NOC = No Objection Certificate, 

PGDCA = Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications, PUC=Pre University Course, 
SSLC=Secondary School Leaving Certificate.

WARNING:-
  Beware of touts and job racketeers trying to deceive by false promises of securing job in Railways either through influence or 

 by use of unfair and unethical means. RRB has not appointed any agent(s) or coaching center(s) for action on its behalf. 
 Candidates are warned against any such claims being made by persons/agencies. Candidates are selected purely as per merit. 
 Beware of unscrupulous elements and do not fall in their trap. Candidates attempting to influence RRB directly or indirectly 
 shall be disqualified and legal action can be initiated against them.
  Candidates are advised to visit only the official website of RRBs and beware of FAKE websites put up by unscrupulous 

 elements/touts.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 19

1.This is to certify that Shri*/ Srimati/ Kumari* ...................................son/daughter* of............................................ Village/ 
Town......................................./District/Division*..............................of the........................................State/Union Territory* 
belongs to the.................................Caste*/Tribe which is recognized as a Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe under:- 
*The Constitution Scheduled Castes Order 1950.
*The Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order 1950.
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories) (Part C States) Order 1951;
*The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Union Territories) (Part C States) Order 1951;
[As amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification Order 1956, the Bombay Re-organisation 
Act 1960, the Punjab Re- organisation Act 1966, the State of Himachal Pradesh Act 1970, the North Eastern Areas 
(Re-organisation) Act 1971 and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Orders, (Amendment) Act 1976]
*The Constitution (Jammu and Kashmir)* Scheduled Castes Orders, 1956
*The Constitution (Andaman and Nicobar Islands)* Scheduled Tribes Order, 1959 as amended by the Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled *Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 1976
*The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli)* Scheduled Castes Order, 1962.
*The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Tribes, Order, 1962
*The Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes Orders, 1964
*The Constitution (Uttar Pradesh) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1967
*The Constitution (Goa, Daman and Diu) Scheduled Castes Order, 1968
*The Constitution (Goa, Daman and Diu) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1968
*The Constitution (Nagaland) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1970.
*The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Castes Order, 1978
*The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1978
*The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1989.
*The Constitution (SC) Orders (Amendment) Act, 1990
*The Constitution (ST) Orders (Amendment) Ordinance Act, 1991
*The Constitution (ST) Orders (Amendment) Ordinance Act, 1996
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002
*The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Second Amendment) Act, 2002.
*The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002.
2. Applicable in the case of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes persons who have migrated from one State/Union   
Territory Administration.
This certificate is issued on the basis of the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes Certificate issued to

Shri/Srimati*...............................father/mother*..............................of Shri/Srimati/Kumari……………………… of Village/ 
Town*.............................in/District/Division*.............................of the State/UnionTerritory*………………….who belongs to 
the........................Caste*/Tribe which is recognised as a Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe in the Station/ Union Territory* 
issued by the ................................dated.
3. Shri/Srimati/Kumari* and /or* his/her* family ordinarily resides in Village/Town*..............................  District/ Division* of 
the State/ Union Territory* of............................................
Place..................................      Signature..................................................................
Date...................................      Designation...............................................................
        (with seal of Office)
        State/ Union Territory................................................
* Please delete the words which are not applicable.
@ Please quote the specific presidential order.
% Delete the Paragraph, which is not applicable
Note: (a) The term “ordinarily reside(s)’ used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1950.Officers competent to issue caste/Tribe certificates.
1. District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Deputy Commissioner / Additional Deputy Commissioner / 
Deputy Collector / 1st Class Stipendiary Magistrate / Sub-Divisional Magistrate / Taluka Magistrate / Executive Magistrate 
/ Extra Assistant Commissioner. 2. Chief Presidency Magistrate / Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate / Presidency 
Magistrate. 3. Revenue Officers not below the rank of Tehsildar. 4. Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate 
and / or his / her family normally reside(s). 5. Certificates issued by Gazetted Officers of the Central or of a State Government 
Countersigned by the District Magistrate concerned. 6. Administrator/ Secretary to Administrator (Laccadive, Minicoy and 
Amindivi Islands).

FORM OF CASTE CERTIFICATE FOR SC/ST

Annexure-I



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 20

 

FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES

APPLYING FOR APPOINTMENT TO POST UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari...........................................................................................son/daughter of 
……………………………….of  Village/Town ..........................in District/ Division ............................................. in  the State/ Union 
Territory……………………………….  belongs to the ................................. community which is recognised as  a Backward Class under 
the Government of India, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment’s Resolution No……………………………………………………. 
dated………………………*.  

 

 Shri/Smt./Kum.*.....................................................................and/or his/her family ordinarily reside(s) in the…...................
...................District/Division of the...........................................................state/Union Territory. This is also to certify that he/she does 
not belong to the persons/sections (Creamy layer) mentioned in column 3 (of the Schedule to the Government of India, Department 
of Personnel & Training OM No. 36012/22/93-Estt(SCT), dated 8.9.1993  and modified vide Government of India, Department of 
Personnel and Training O.M.No.36033/1/2013-Estt. (Res) dated 27.05.2013 and 13.09.2017**.

Date:

DISTRICT MAGISTRATE /

DY. COMMISSIONER ETC.

 (Seal )

*The authority issuing the certificate may have to mention the details of Resolution of Government of India, in which the caste 
of the candidate as OBC.

**As amended from time to time. 

Note: The term “Ordinarily” used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the Representation of the  People Act, 
1950.

Annexure-II

OBC CERTIFICATE FORMAT



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 21

Proforma for declaration to be submitted by Other Backward Class
Candidates at the time of document verification, who had applied for the

posts against Centralized Employment Notice (CEN) - 03/2018

I,...................................................................................son/daughter of Shri ................................................. .............................................
resident of Village/Town/ City ............................................................. district ........................................ State .......................................... 
hereby declare that I belong to the ......................................... (indicate your sub caste) community which is recognized as a backward 
class by the Government of India for the purpose of reservation in services as per orders contained in Department of Personnel and 
Training Office Memorandum No. 36012/22/93-Estt.(SCT) dated 08.09.1993. It is also declared that I do not belong to persons/sections 
(Creamy Layer) mentioned in column 3 of the Schedule to the above referred Office Memorandum dated 08.03.1993 and its subsequent 
revision through O.M.No.36033/1/2013-Estt. (Res) dated 27.05.2013 and 13.09.2017.

 Place:       Signature of the Candidate

 Date:           Name of the candidate 

DECLARATION
Annexure-IIA



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 22

Proforma for Waiver of Examination Fees to be submitted by Economically Backward Class 
candidates at the time of document verification against 

Centralized Employment Notice (CEN) - 03/2018
1. Name of Candidate : .........................................................................................................................
2. Father’s Name : ................................................................................................................................
3. Age : .................................................................................................................................................
4. Residential Address : ......................................................................................................................
5. Annual Family Income (In words & Figures) : ..................................................................................

Date: .............................         Signature:
           Name:

Stamp of Issuing Authority:

Note: Economically Backward Classes will mean the candidates whose family income is less than Rs.50,000/- per annum. The following 
authorities are authorized to issue income certificates for the purpose of indentifying economically backward classes:
(1) District magistrate or any other Revenue Officer up in the level of Tehsildar (2) Sitting Member of Parliament of Lok Sabha for 
persons of their own Constituency (3) BPL Card or any other certificate issued by Central Government under a recognized poverty 
alleviation programme or Izzat MST issued by Railways. (4) Union Minister may also recommend to Chairman /RRBs for any persons 
from anywhere in the country. (5) Sitting Member of Parliament of Rajya Sabha for persons of the district in which these MPs normally 
reside.

Income Certificate for EBC
Annexure-III



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 23

 

Proforma for Waiver of Examination Fees to be submitted by
 Minority candidates at the time of document verification against 

Centralized Employment Notice (CEN) - 03/2018

I,............................................................................................................ son/daughter of Shri ...................................................................
................................. resident of village/ town/city ............................................................ district ..........................................................
.......... state...........................................................hereby declare that I belong to the..................................................(indicate minority 
community notified by Central Government i.e., Muslim / Sikh / Christian / Buddhist / Jain / Zoroastrians (Parsis)
 
Date :        Signature of the Candidate
Place :        Name of the Candidate
Note : At the time of document verification such candidates claiming waiver of examination fee will be required to furnish ‘Minority 
Community Declaration’ affidavit on Non Judicial Stamp paper that he / she belongs to any of the minority community notified by Central 
Government (i.e., Muslim / Sikh / Christian / Buddhist / Jain / Zoroastrians (Parsis).

DECLARATION
Annexure-IV



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 24

 
FORM-V

Certificate of Disability
(In cases of amputation or complete permanent paralysis 

of limbs or dwarfism and in case of blindness)
[See Rule 18(1)]

(NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEDICAL AUTHORITY ISSUING THE CERTIFICATE

ANNEXURE V(A)

Recent passport 
size attested
photograph

(Showing face
only) of the person

with disability

Certificate No.……………................................          Date: …………..................
This is to certify that I have carefully examined Shri/Smt/Kum………………………………………………..……
son/wife/ daughter of Shri………………………………….................... Date of Birth ………………....................
(DD/MM/YYYY) Age ……….....…Years, Male/Female ………………. Registration No. …………………….......
permanent resident of House No. ……………………….... Ward/Village/Street......................…...............…….. 
Post Office …………………………..............………..… District ........….............................................…………… 
State …………………………..............……, whose photograph is affixed above, and am satisfied that:
(A) He/she is a case of:
 • Locomotor Disability
 • Dwarfism
 • Blindness
 (Please tick as applicable)
(B) The diagnosis in his/her case is …………………………………..…………….
(1) He/She has …………% (in figure)………..………….…. percent (in words) permanent locomotor disability/dwarfism/blindness in 
relation to his/her ……………………..……. (part of body) as per guidelines (………………….number and date of issue of the guidelines 
to be specified).
(2) The applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence:

Nature of Document Date of Issue Details of authority issuing certificate

(Signature and Seal of Authorized Signatory of
Notified Medical Authority)Signature/Thumb Impression of the 

person in whose favour certificate of 
disability is issued



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 25

FORM-VI
Certificate of Disability

(In cases of multiple disabilities)
[See rule 18(1)]

(Name and Address Of The Medica l Authority Issuing The Certificate)

Certificate No:…………………..       Date: ………….............…
1. This is to certify that we have carefully examined Shri/Smt./Kum ……………………………………...………
son/wife/daughter of Shri ………………………….…….... Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY) ……………..………… 
Age………....... years, Male/Female………………………….…… Registration No. ……………........................ 
permanent resident of House No………….. Ward/Village/Street ……………. Post Office…………….............. 
District…………………State……………... whose photograph is affixed above, and I am satisfied that:
(A) He/She is a case of Multiple Disability. His/Her extent of permanent physical impairment/disability has been evaluated as per 
guidelines (………………..number and date of issue of the guidelines to be specified) for the disabilities ticked below, and is shown 
against the relevant disability in the table below:

Sl.No Disability Affected part of body Diagnosis
Permanent physical

impairment/mental disability (in%)

1 Locomotor Disability @
2 Muscular Dystrophy
3 Leprosy cured
4 Dwarfism
5 Cerebral Palsy
6 Acid attack Victim
7 Low Vision #
8 Blindness #
9 Deaf £
10 Hard of Hearing £

11 Speech and Language disability

12 Intellectual Disability
13 Specific Learning Disability
14 Autism Spectrum Disorder
15 Mental illness

16 Chronic Neurological Conditions

17 Multiple Sclerosis
18 Parkinson’s Disease
19 Haemophilia
20 Thalassemia
21 Sickle Cell disease

(B) In the light of the above, his/her over all permanent physical impairment as per guidelines (…………….number and date of issue of 
the guidelines to be specified), is as follows:-
In figures: …………% In words : ……………………………...……………... percent
2. This condition is progressive/non-progressive/likely to improve/not likely to improve.
3. Reassessment of disability is :
i ) not necessary, Or
ii) is recommended/after ……………….years …………………….…months, and therefore this certificate shall be valid till 
…………………………………………… (DD/MM/YYYY) @ e.g. Left/Right/both arms/legs; # e.g Single eye; £ e.g. Left/Right/both ears
4. The applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence:

Nature of Document Date of issue Details of authority issuing certificate

5. Signature and seal of the Medical Authority:

Name and Seal of Member Name and Seal of Member Name and Seal of the Chairperson

ANNEXURE V(B)

Recent passport size
attested

photograph
(Showing face

only) of the person
with disability

Signature/Thumb impression of the 
person in whose favour Certificate of 

disability is issued



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 26

FORM-VII
Certificate of Disability

(In cases other than those mentioned in Forms V and VI)
(Name and Address Of The Medica l Authority Issuing The Certificate)

[See rule 18(1)]
Certificate No:…………………..        Date: ……………….
1. This is to certify that I have carefully examined Shri/Smt./Kum………………………………………………………
son/wife/daughter of Shri ……………………………………………….. Date of Birth(DD/MM/YYYY)……………..... 
Age ......………. years, male/female …….....…………. Registration No.……………............................................. 
permanent resident of House No……………….. Ward/Village/Street…………….. Post Office.............................. 
District..................... State............................................, whose photograph is affixed above, and I am satisfied that he/she is a case of 
……………………..…….. disability. His/her extent of percentage physical impairment/disability has been evaluated as per guidelines 
(………….. number and date of issue of the guidelines to be specified) and is shown against the relevant disability in the table below:-

Sl.No Disability Affected part of body Diagnosis
Permanent physical

impairment/mental disability (in%)
1 Locomotor Disability @
2 Muscular Dystrophy
3 Leprosy cured
4 Cerebral Palsy
5 Acid attack Victim
6 Low Vision #
7 Deaf £
8 Hard of Hearing £
9 Speech and Language disability
10 Intellectual Disability
11 Specific Learning Disability
12 Autism Spectrum Disorder
13 Mental illness
14 Chronic Neurological Conditions
15 Multiple Sclerosis
16 Parkinson’s Disease
17 Haemophilia
18 Thalassemia
19 Sickle Cell disease

(Please strike out the disabilities which are not applicable)
2. The above condition is progressive/non-progressive/likely to improve/not likely to improve.
3. Reassessment of disability is:
(i) not necessary, Or
(ii) is recommended/after …… years ..…. months, and therefore this certificate shall be valid till …......…… (DD/MM/YYYY)
@ e.g. Left/Right/both arms/legs; # e.g. Single eye/both eyes; € e.g. Left/Right/both ears
4.Th e applicant has submitted the following document as proof of residence:

Nature of Document Date of Issue Details of authority issuing certificate

(Authorized Signatory of notified Medical Authority)
(Name and Seal)

Countersigned
{Counter signature and seal of the Chief Medical Officer/Medical Superintendent/

Head of Government Hospital, in case the
Certificate is issued by a medical authority who is

Not a Government servant (with seal)}

Note: In case this certificate is issued by a Medical Authority who is not a Government servant, it shall be valid only if countersigned by 
the Chief Medical Officer of the District.

ANNEXURE V(C)

Recent passport size
attested

photograph
(Showing face

only) of the person
with disability

Signature/Thumb impression of the 
person in whose favourcertificate of 

disability is issued.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 27

DECLARATION FOR SCRIBE

NOTE :  Candidates Visually Impaired(VI)/candidates whose writing speed is affected by Cerebral Palsy /muscular dystrophy/ 
candidates with loco motor disability (one arm)/Intellectual disability (Autism, specific learning disability and mental illness) 
are eligible for Scribe.

PARTICULARS OF SCRIBE PROPOSED TO BE ENGAGED BY THE CANDIDATE
1. Name of the Candidate ....................................................................................................................
2. Date of Birth of the Candidate .........................................................................................................
3. Name of the Scribe ..........................................................................................................................
4. Father’s Name of the Scribe ............................................................................................................
5. Address of the Scribe :
  (a) Permanent Address ....................................................................................................................
   (b) Present Address .........................................................................................................................
6. Educational Qualification of the Scribe ...........................................................................................
7. Relationship, if any, of the Scribe to the Candidate ........................................................................
8. DECLARATION:
i) We hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct to the best of our knowledge and belief. We have read/
been read out the instructions of the Railway Recruitment Board regarding conduct of the candidates assisted by Scribe/Scribes at this 
examination  and here by undertake to abide by them.
ii) We declare that the Scribe himself/herself is not a candidate in this examination. 
iii) We declare that the scribe has not acted/will not act as Scribe to any other candidate of this examination. 

______________________          _____________________
(Signature of the Candidate)             (Signature of the Scribe)

Signature of the Invigilator

Left thumb impression of
the candidate in the box 

given above

Left thumb impression of
the Scribe in the box 

given above.

Annexure-V(D)

Regn. No: …………

Paste here recent colour 
Passport Size Photograph 
of the SCRIBE of size 3.5 

cmx 4.5cm (The colour 
photograph should not be 
more than 3 months old.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 28

DECLARATION TO BE SUBMITTED  BY EX-SERVICEMEN CANDIDATES REGARDING CIVIL 
EMPLOYMENT BY AVAILING EX-SERVICEMEN QUOTA.

I understand that I shall not be eligible to be appointed to a vacancy reserved for Ex- Servicemen in regard to the recruitment covered 
by this Centralized Employment Notice (CEN), if I have at any time prior to such appointment, secured any employment on the civil 
side(including Public Sector Undertaking, Autonomous Bodies/ Statutory Bodies, Nationalized Banks, etc.), by availing of the concession 
of reservation of vacancies admissible to Ex-servicemen.
I also hereby declare the following facts:
a) I have not secured any civil employment by availing Ex- Servicemen quota, before attending for document verification for the posts 
of CEN. 03/2018.

b) I have availed Ex- Servicemen quota for securing civil employment and I have given self declaration/ undertaking to my employer 
about the details of application(s) for various vacancies notified in CEN 03/2018 for which I have applied for, before joining the civil 
employment.  Certificate for submission of self declaration/undertaking from the present Employer is enclosed.

     (Strikeout whichever is not applicable)

Place:                                                                 Signature:
Date:                                                                    Name:
Roll No:

Annexure-VI



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 29

Annexure-VIIA
Syllabus for Civil & Allied Engineering Exam Group – JE

Sl. No. Subject

1 Engineering Mechanics- Force (resolution of force, moment of force, force system, composition of forces), Equilibrium, Friction, Centroid and Center of gravity, Simple machines.

2 Building Construction- Building components (substructure, superstructure), type of structure (load bearing, framed and composite structures).

3 Building materials- Masonry materials (stones, bricks, and mortars), Timber and miscellaneous materials (glass, plastic, fiber, aluminum steel, galvanized iron, bitumen, PVC, CPVC, and PPF).
4 Construction of substructure- job layout, earthwork, foundation (types, dewatering, coffer dams, bearing capacity).

5 Construction of superstructure- stone masonry, brick masonry, Hollow concrete block masonry, composite masonry, cavity wall, doors and windows, vertical communication (stairs, lifts, escalators), scaffolding and shoring.

6 Building finishes- Floors (finishes, process of laying), walls (plastering, pointing, painting) and roofs (roofing materials including RCC).

7 Building maintenance- Cracks (causes, type, repairs- grouting, guniting, epoxy etc.), settlement (causes and remedial measures), and re-baring techniques.

8
Building drawing- Conventions (type of lines, symbols), planning of building (principles of planning for residential and 
public buildings, rules and byelaws), drawings (plan, elevation, section, site plan, location plan, foundation plan, working 
drawing), perspective drawing.

9

Concrete Technology- Properties of various types/grades of cement, properties of coarse and fine aggregates, properties 
of concrete (water cement ratio, properties of fresh and hardened concrete), Concrete mix design, testing of concrete, 
quality control of concrete (batching, formwork, transportation, placing, compaction, curing, waterproofing), extreme 
weather concreting and chemical admixtures, properties of special concrete (ready mix, RCC, pre-stressed, fiber 
reinforced, precast, high performance).

10

Surveying- Types of survey, chain and cross staff survey (principle, ranging, triangulation, chaining, errors, finding area), 
compass survey (principle, bearing of line, prismatic compass, traversing, local attraction, calculation of bearings, angles 
and local attraction)  leveling (dumpy level, recording in level book, temporary adjustment, methods of reduction of levels, 
classification of leveling, tilting level, auto level, sources of errors, precautions and difficulties in leveling), contouring 
(contour interval, characteristics, method of locating, interpolation, establishing grade contours, uses of contour maps), 
area and volume measurements, plane table survey (principles, setting, method),  theodolite survey (components, 
adjustments, measurements, traversing), Tacheometric survey, curves (types, setting out), advanced survey equipment, 
aerial survey and remote sensing.

11 Computer Aided Design- CAD Software (AutoCAD, Auto Civil, 3D Max etc.), CAD commands, generation of plan, elevation, section, site plan, area statement, 3D view.

12
Geo Technical Engineering- Application of Geo Technical Engineering in design of foundation, pavement, earth retaining 
structures, earthen dams etc., physical properties of soil, permeability of soil and seepage analysis, shear strength of soil, 
bearing capacity of soil, compaction and stabilization of soil, site investigation and sub soil exploration.

13 Hydraulics- properties of fluid, hydrostatic pressure, measurement of liquid pressure in pipes, fundamentals of fluid flow, flow of liquid through pipes, flow through open channel, flow measuring devices, hydraulic machines.
14 Irrigation Engineering- Hydrology, investigation and reservoir planning, percolation tanks, diversion head works.

15 Mechanics of Structures- Stress and strain, shear force and bending moment, moment of inertia, stresses in beams, analysis of trusses, strain energy.

16 Theory of structures- Direct and bending stresses, slope and deflection, fixed beam, continuous beam, moment distribution method, columns.

17
Design of Concrete Structures- Working Stress method, Limit State method, analysis and design of singly reinforced and 
doubly reinforced sections, shear, bond and development length, analysis and design of T Beam, slab, axially loaded 
column and footings.

18 Design of Steel Structures- Types of sections, grades of steel, strength characteristics, IS Code, Connections, Design of tension and compression members, steel roof truss, beams, column bases.

19

Transportation Engineering- Railway Engineering (alignment and gauges, permanent way,  railway track geometrics, 
branching of tracks, stations and yards, track maintenance), Bridge engineering (site selection, investigation, component 
parts of bridge, permanent and temporary bridges, inspection and maintenance), Tunnel engineering (classification, 
shape and sizes, tunnel investigation and surveying, method of tunneling in various strata, precautions, equipment, 
explosives, lining and ventilation).

20 Highway Engineering- Road Engineering, investigation for road project, geometric design of highways, construction of road pavements and materials, traffic engineering, hill roads, drainage of roads, maintenance and repair of roads.

21 Environmental Engineering- Environmental pollution and control, public water supply, domestic sewage, solid waste management, environmental sanitation, and plumbing.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 30

22

Advanced Construction Techniques and Equipment- Fibers and plastics, artificial timber, advanced concreting methods 
(under water concreting, ready mix concrete, tremix concreting, special concretes), formwork, pre-fabricated construction, 
soil reinforcing techniques, hoisting and conveying equipment, earth moving machinery (exaction and compaction 
equipment), concrete mixers, stone crushers, pile driving equipment, working of hot mix bitumen plant, bitumen paver, 
floor polishing machines.

23 Estimating and Costing- Types of estimates (approximate, detailed), mode of measurements and rate analysis.
24 Contracts and Accounts- Types of engineering contracts, Tender and tender documents, payment, specifications.

Annexure-VIIB
Syllabus for Electrical & Allied Engineering Exam Group – JE

Sl.No. Subject

1. Basic concepts: Concepts of resistance, inductance, capacitance, and various factors affecting them. Concepts of current, voltage, power, energy and their units.
2. Circuit law: Kirchhoff‘s law, Simple Circuit solution using network theorems.

3.
Magnetic Circuit: Concepts of flux, mmf, reluctance, Different kinds of magnetic materials, Magnetic calculations for 
conductors of different configuration e.g. straight, circular, solenoidal, etc. Electromagnetic induction, self and mutual 
induction.

4.
AC Fundamentals: Instantaneous, peak, R.M.S. and average values of alternating waves, Representation of sinusoidal 
wave form, simple series and parallel AC Circuits consisting of R.L. and C, Resonance, Tank Circuit. Poly Phase system 
– star and delta connection, 3 phase power, DC and sinusoidal response of R-Land R-C circuit.

5.

Measurement and measuring instruments: Measurement of power (1 phase and 3 phase, both active and re-active) and 
energy, 2 wattmeter method of 3 phase power measurement. Measurement of frequency and phase angle. Ammeter and 
voltmeter (both moving oil and moving iron type), extension of range wattmeter, Multimeters, Megger, Energy meter AC 
Bridges. Use of CRO, Signal Generator, CT, PT and their uses. Earth Fault detection.

6.

Electrical Machines: (a) D.C. Machine – Construction, Basic Principles of D.C. motors and generators, their characteristics, 
speed control and starting of D.C. Motors. Method of braking motor, Losses and efficiency of D.C. Machines. (b) 1 phase 
and 3 phase transformers – Construction, Principles of operation, equivalent circuit, voltage regulation, O.C. and S.C. 
Tests, Losses and efficiency. Effect of voltage, frequency and wave form on losses. Parallel operation of 1 phase /3 phase 
transformers. Auto transformers. (c) 3 phase induction motors, rotating magnetic field, principle of operation, equivalent 
circuit, torque-speed characteristics, starting and speed control of 3 phase induction motors. Methods of braking, effect of 
voltage and frequency variation on torque speed characteristics, Fractional Kilowatt Motors and Single Phase Induction 
Motors: Characteristics and applications. 

7. Synchronous Machines: Generation of 3-phase e.m.f. armature reaction, voltage regulation, parallel operation of two alternators, synchronizing, control of active and reactive power. Starting and applications of synchronous motors.

8.

Generation, Transmission and Distribution: Different types of power stations, Load factor, diversity factor, demand factor, 
cost of generation, inter-connection of power stations. Power factor improvement, various types of tariffs, types of faults, 
short circuit current for symmetrical faults. 
Switchgears and Protection: Rating of circuit breakers, Principles of arc extinction by oil and air, H.R.C. Fuses, Protection 
against earth leakage / over current, etc. Buchholz relay, Merz-Price system of protection of generators & transformers, 
protection of feeders and bus bars. Lightning arresters, various transmission and distribution system, comparison of 
conductor materials, efficiency of different system. Cable – Different type of cables, cable rating and derating factor.

9. Estimation and costing: Estimation of lighting scheme, electric installation of machines and relevant IE rules. Earthing practices and IE Rules.
10. Utilization of Electrical Energy: Illumination, Electric heating, Electric welding, Electroplating, Electric drives and motors.

11. Basic Electronics: Working of various electronic devices e.g. P N Junction diodes, Transistors (NPN and PNP type), BJT and JFET. Simple circuits using these devices.

Annexure-VIIC
Syllabus for Electronics & Allied Engineering Exam Group – JE 

Sl.No. Subject

1.
Electronic Components & Materials
Conductors, Semi conductor& Insulators; Magnetic materials; Jointing & Cleaning materials for U/G copper cable & OFC; 
Cells and Batteries (chargeable and non chargeable); Relays, Switches, MCB & Connectors.

2.
Electronic Devices and circuits
PN Junction diodes, thyristor; Diode and triode circuits; Junction Transistors; Amplifiers; Oscillator;  M u l t i v i b r a t o r , 
counters; Rectifiers; Inverter and UPS.

3.
Digital Electronics
Number System & Binary codes; Boolean Algebra & Logic gates; Combinational & Sequential logic circuits; A/D & D/A 
converter, counters; Memories

4.
Linear Integrated Circuit
Introduction to operational Amplifier; Linear applications; Non Linear applications; Voltage regulators; Timers; Phase lock 
loop.

5.
Microprocessor and Microcontroller
Introduction to microprocessor, 8085 microprocessor working; Assembly Language programming; Peripherals & other 
microprocessors; Microcontrollers



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 31

6.
Electronic Measurements
Measuring systems; Basic principles of measurement; Range Extension methods; Cathode ray oscilloscope, LCD, LED 
panel; Transducers

7.

Communication Engineering
Introduction to communication; Modulation techniques; Multiplexing Techniques; Wave Propagation, Transmission line 
characteristics, OFC; Fundamentals of Public Address systems, Electronic exchange, Radar, Cellular and Satellite 
Communication.

8.
Data communication and Network
Introduction to data communication; Hardware and interface; Introduction to Networks and Networking devices; Local 
Area Network and Wide area network; Internet working.

9.
Computer Programming
Programming concepts; Fundamentals of  ‘C’ and C ++; Operators in ‘C’ and C ++;  Control Statements; Functions, Array 
String & Pointers, File Structure; Data Structure and DBMS

10
Basic Electrical Engg.
DC Circuits; AC fundamentals; Magnetic, Thermal and Chemical  effects of Electric current; Earthing - Installation, 
Maintenance, Testing, 

Annexure-VIID
Syllabus for Mechanical & Allied Engineering Exam Group – JE

1. Engineering Mechanics :
Resolution of forces, Equilibrium and Equilibrant,  parallelogram law of forces, triangle law of forces, polygon law of 
forces and Lami’s theorem, couple and moment of a couple, condition for equilibrium of rigid body subjected to number 
of coplanar non-concurrent forces, definition of static friction, dynamic friction, derivation of limiting angle of friction and 
angle of repose, resolution of forces considering friction when a body moves on horizontal plane and inclined plane, 
calculation of moment of inertia and radius of gyration of : (a) I-Section (b) channel section (c) T-Section (d) L-Section 
(Equal & unequal lengths) (e) Z-Section (f) Built up sections (simple cases only), Newton’s laws of motion (without 
derivation), motion of projectile, D’Alembert’s principle, definition law of conservation of energy, law of conservation of 
momentum.

2. Material Science :
Mechanical properties of engineering materials – tensile strength, compressive strength, ductility, malleability, hardness, 
toughness, brittleness, impact strength, fatigue, creep resistance.

Classification of steels, mild steel and alloy steels.

Importance of heat treatment.  Heat treatment processes – annealing, normalizing, hardening, tempering, carburizing, 
nitriding and cyaniding.

3. Strength of Materials :
Stress, strain, stress strain diagram, factor of safety, thermal stresses, strain energy, proof resilience and modules of 
resilience. Shear force and bending moment diagram – cant leaver beam, simply supported beam, continuous beam, 
fixed beam. Torsion in shafts and springs, thin cylinder shells.

4. Machining :
Working principle of lathe. Types of lathes – Engine lathe – construction details and specifications. Nomenclature of 
single point cutting tool, geometry, tool signature, functions of tool angles.  General and special operations – (Turning, 
facing, taper turning thread cutting, knurling, forming, drilling, boring, reaming, key way cutting), cutting fluids, coolants 
and lubricants.  Introduction to shaper, slotter, plainer, broaching, milling and manufacture of gears, heat treatment 
process applied to gears.

5. Welding :
Welding – Introduction, classification of welding processes, advantages and limitations of welding, principles of arc welding, 
arc welding equipment, choice of electrodes for different metals, principle of gas (oxy-acetylene) welding, equipment of 
gas welding, welding procedures (arc & gas), soldering and brazing techniques, types and applications of solders and 
fluxes, various flame cutting processes, advantages and limitations of flame cutting, defects in welding, testing and 
inspection modern welding methods, (submerged, CO2, atomic – hydrogen, ultrasonic welding), brief description of MIG 
& TIG welding. 

6. Grinding & Finishing Process :
Principles of metal removal by grinding, abrasives, natural and artificial, bonds and binding processes, vitrified, silicate, 
shellac rubber, grinding machines, classification: cylindrical, surface, tool &  cutter grinding machine, construction 
details, relative merits, principles of centreless grinding, advantages & limitations of centreless grinding work, holding 
devices, wheel maintenance, balancing of wheels, coolants used, finishing by grinding, honing, lapping, super finishing, 
electroplating, basic principles – plating metals, applications, hot dipping, galvanizing tin coating, parkerising, anodizing, 
metal spraying, wire process, powder process and applications, organic coatings, oil base paint, lacquer base enamels, 
bituminous paints, rubber base coating.

7. Metrology :
Linear measurement – Slip gauges and dial indicators, angle measurements, bevel protractor, sine bar, angle slip 
gauges, comparators (a) mechanical (b) electrical (c) optical (d) pneumatic.  Measurement of surface roughness; 
methods of measurements by comparison, tracer instruments and by interferometry, collimators, measuring microscope, 
interferometer, inspection of machine parts using the concepts of shadow projection and profile projection.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 32

8. Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulic Machinery : 
Properties of fluid, density, specific weight, specific gravity, viscosity, surface tension, compressibility capillarity, Pascal’s 
law, measurement of pressures, concept of buoyancy.
Concept of Reynold’s number, pressure, potential and kinetic energy of liquids, total energy, laws of conservation, mass, 
energy and momentum, velocity of liquids and discharge, Bernoulli’s equation and assumptions, venturimeters, pitot-
tube, current meters.
Working principle & constructional details of centrifugal pump, efficiencies – manometric efficiency, volumetric efficiency, 
mechanical efficiency and overall efficiency, cavitation and its effect, working principle of jet & submersible pumps with 
line diagrams.

9. Industrial Management :
Job analysis, motivation, different theories, satisfaction, performance reward systems, production, planning and control, 
relation with other departments, routing, scheduling, dispatching, PERT and CPM, simple problems.
Materials in industry, inventory control model, ABC Analysis, Safety stock, re-order, level, economic ordering quantity, 
break even analysis, stores layout, stores equipment, stores records, purchasing procedures, purchase records, Bin 
card, Cardex, Material handling, Manual lifting, hoist, cranes, conveyors, trucks, fork trucks. 

10. Thermal Engineering : 
Laws of thermo dynamics, conversion of heat into work vice versa , laws of perfect gases, thermo dynamic processes 
– isochoric, isobaric, isothermal hyperbolic, isentropic, polytrophic and throttling, modes of heat transfer, thermal 
conductivity, convective heat transfer coefficient, Stefan Boltzman law by radiation and overall heat transfer coefficient. 
Air standards cycles – Carnot cycle, Otto cycle, Diesel cycle, construction and working of internal combustion engines, 
comparison of diesel engine and petrol engine. Systems of internal combustion engine, performance of internal 
combustion engines.
Air compressors their cycles refrigeration cycles, principle of a refrigeration plant.

Annexure-VIIE
Syllabus for Computer Science and Information Technology Exam Group – JE (IT)

Sl. No. Subject

1.
PC Software : 
MS-Windows, MS-Word, MS-Excel & MS-Power Point 

2.
Computer fundamentals : 
Evolution of Computers, Hardware & Software, Internet.

3.
C Language : 
Structure, Loop, Control Statements, Arrays, Pointers, Functions, Structure and Union, Files

4.
Computer  Organisation :
Number Systems, Logic Gates, Flip-Flops, Boolean Algebra, DMA, Instruction Sets.

5.
Information Systems  : 
Information concepts, Hardware & Software, Overview of Communication Systems, E-Commerce

6.
Data Structure using C++ : 
Object oriented Programming, Data Structures, Stack, Queue, Pointers, Linked List, Searching & Sorting Algorithms

7.
DBMS fundamentals : 
BASIC, Data Models, RDBMS, Relational Algebra, SQL, DDL, DML and DCL Statements, Creating Tables, Equi-Joints, Self 
Joins, PL/SQL, Functions, Cursor and Triggers.

8.
System Programming : 
Back-ground, Assemblers, Loaders and Linkers, Macro Processors, Compilers

9.

Operating System using LINUX : 
Operating System, Types, Features & Basic Architecture of Unix/Linux System, Unix File System & Structure, Linux Commands 
for files and directories, Filters and Pipes, Process, Creating and Editing Files with VI Editor, System Administration, Role of 
System Administrator, Managing User Accounts.

10.

Web Technologies and Programming : 
Internet & Intranet, Hardware & Software like Bus, Ethernet, LAN, Routers, Gateways, Bridge, Switches, Subnet etc. 
Internet Service Provider, Backbones, NAPs, URL, Domain Names, Email, Web Server and Proxy Server, Web Caches, 
Web Browser like Internet Explorer, Internet Viruses, Internet Security Issues, Firewall, Data Encryption, Digital Signatures 
and Certificates, Creating the Website and Home Page, HTML Programming Basics, Syntax and Rules, Search and Search 
Engine for Internet, Outlook Express and Front Page. 



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 33

11. System Analysis and Design:
System components; system planning: Fact finding techniques: Tools for documenting procedure and decisions; Structured 
Analysis: Data flow analysis; flow diagrams; Data dictionary; Application Prototype: System Design: software development 
specification; Design - Input, output, files, control. Procedure, Program specification etc: Design of computer output & its 
presentation.

12. Data and Network Communication:
Data Communication - Distributed processing network criteria, protocol and standards. Topologies etc. OSI model, layers. 
TPC/IP protocol. Digital to Digital Conversion, Digital to analog Conversion, Digital data transmission. Standards, Modems, 
Cable Modem. Transmission media Guided & Unguided Media, Performance, Wave length; Multiplexing, DSL. Error 
detection and correction, VRC, LRC, CRC, Ethernet, Token Bus, Token Ring.

13. Java Programming:
JAVA and Internet: Support systems and environment; JVM: Data Type: program structure. Constants & Variables, Type 
Casting; Operators, Class, Creating Objects, Class Members, Constructors, Overloading, Inheritance, Arrays. Creating 
Threads: Threads Class; Thread Methods; Thread Priority; Synchronization. Applets: Executable Applet, Adding Applet to 
HTML, File; passing Parameters to Applets.

14. Software Engineering:
Software Process - life cycle models; system engineering:

Software Requirements - Functional and non-functional; prototyping; verification; validation.

Design Concepts and Principles - design heuristic; architectural design; user interface design; system design; SCM process.

Software testing - types of test; testing strategies; integration and validation testing system testing and debugging. Software 
Project Management - Measures and measurements; cost estimation; Task Network; Error Tracking; CASE tools.

Annexure-VIIF
Syllabus for Printing Technology – JE

Sl.No. Subject

1.
Printing Systems
Different printing methods; image carriers; impression and ink transfer methods; proofing methods; suitability of jobs for 
various printing process.

2.
Printing Materials 
Materials used for graphic reproduction; image carriers; printing substrates; inks and coatings; binding materials.

3.

Flexo, Gravure and Screen Printing.
Flexographic principles and plate surface preparation; flexographic press work; study and preparation of gravure image 
carrier – Doctor Blade and its care; inks for gravure process; materials used in gravure process; slitting and rewinding 
machine – equipment used for quality control – defects and remedies; screen printing.

4.
Printing Finishing Processing
Introduction to binding and finishing; materials used in binding; methods of binding and modern commercial binding; 
forwarding operations; automation in binding. 

5.
Image Processing
Types of originals – process room equipment; line and halftone photography; digital image processing; computer to fill; image 
editing softwares.

6.
Design & Advertising in Print Media
Introduction to typographic design and advertising; role of typography in design; designing aspects of book, magazine and 
news paper; design of miscellaneous printed products; operations and functions of an advertising agency.
Sheet fed offset Machines

7. Offset lithographic presses; printing unit; inking and dampening; sheet handling, controlling and transferring; make ready and machine run; computer print control (CPC).
8. Publishing Software

Basic anatomy of a computer; paging softwares; vector graphic editing software; scalar image editing software; desktop 
publishing software.

9. Paper and Ink
Paper manufacture and chemistry of pulp; paper and board classification; properties of paper  and conditioning in press 
room; printing ink gradients, manufacture and its properties; problems with paper and ink on press and their remedies.  

10.
Colour Separation and Management
Colour management; colour reproduction; colour separation; developments in electronic scanning; colour proofing.

11.
Plate Making Methods
Job planning and film assembly; imposition considerations; lithographic plate surface chemistry; computer to technologies 
and computer to film; computer to press technologies; computer to plate.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 34

12.
Printing Machine Maintenance 
Maintenance management; types of maintenance and maintenance of spare parts; machinery erection and testing; machine 
replacement, lubrication and lubricants; machine elements and electrical controls.

13.
Digital Imaging 
Art work and film preparation; film image setters; computer to plate systems; non impact printing and digital offset presses; 
electronic proofing.  

14.
Web offset Printing 
Introduction to web offset printing press; make ready and feeding unit; printing unit; delivery unit; digital offset printing.

15.
Printer’s Accounting and Estimating
Purpose and systems of book keeping; definition of estimating and qualifications of an estimator; estimating forms; meaning 
and methods of costing; costing of machine; material and direct labour.

16.
Advanced Printing Technologies
Non impact printing technologies; security printing; speciality printing processes; E-Print.

17.
Package Technology
Concept of packaging and packaging for various purposes; ancillary materials and metal based materials used in packing; 
types of labels and their design; types of packaging systems and its advantages; bar coding. 

Annexure-VIIG
Syllabus for CMA Exam Group

Sl.No. Subject
1. Measurements, Units and Dimensions, Types of errors in measurements,   Significance of accuracy in measurement.

2. Light : Basic principles of light - reflection, refraction, laws of reflection, total internal reflection, interference, diffraction and polarization.  Formula for magnification of microscope, telescope.  Electro Magnetic spectra.

3.
Heat: Heat as energy- sources of heat, Transmission of heat, Expansion of solids, liquids and gases. Temperature (based 
on thermal equilibrium), Different Scales of Temperature.  Calorimetry, Applications of Specific heat, Latent heat. Anomalous 
expansion of water and it significance in nature. Combustion, Calorific value, specific heat of gases.

4. Sound: Sources of sound. Propagation of sound. Velocity of sound in different media / substances. Characteristics of sound. Reflection of sound, echo, Resonance, Sonar and Doppler effect.

5.

Mechanics: Scalars and Vectors. All types of motion.  Friction. Newton’s laws of motion. Momentum. Equations of motion 
(under gravity and freely falling), projectile. Range. Laws of Floatation. Work, Power and Energy. Conservation of energy. 
Center of mass. Centre of gravity. Stability and Equilibrium. Universal law of Gravitation. Relation between ‘g’ and ‘G’. 
Circular motion, Kepler’s Laws. Elasticity and Hooke’s Law.

6. Magnetism: Magnetic field, Uniform and non uniform magnetic fields. Magnetic induction. Magnetic lines of force. Magnetic pole strength, Magnetic moment. Inverse square law of magnetism. Magnetic properties of materials and their classification.

7.

Electricity & Electro Magnetism: Electric charge, field, electric intensity, electric potential, potential difference. Simple Electric 
Circuits. Conductors, Non conductors / Insulators, Coulomb’s inverse square law. Primary and secondary Cells.  Ohm’s Law 
- its limitations. Resistances in series and parallel, Emf of a circuit; Specific resistance. Kirchhoff’s laws. Relation between 
electric potential and Electric energy, electric Power (wattage). Heating effect of electric current, and Joule’s law. Ampere’s 
law, circular loop and Solenoid. Magnetic force on moving charged particle and long straight conductors.  Fleming’s left hand 
rule, Electric motor. Electromagnetic induction – Faraday’s law Electromagnetic flux. Lentz law, Generators and Alternating 
Currents. Inductance – self, mutual inductance and principles of transformer.

8.

Modern Physics: Discharge of Electricity through gases, Cathode rays, Anode rays and their properties; X-rays; Atomic 
models: JJ Thomson, Rutherford and Bohr’s models. Atomic nucleus and its structure. Atomic models: Mass defect; Radio 
Activity- Discovery, properties of alpha, beta, and gamma radiations. Applications of alpha, beta, and gamma radiations, 
alpha, beta decays, Half life period, Isotopes, Isobars, and Isotones. Artificial radioactivity; radio isotopes and their uses in 
different fields; radioactive series; Chain and controlled nuclear reactions; Fission and fusion of nuclei - atomic bomb and 
hydrogen bomb.

9. Electronics and Communications: Semi conductors, diode, p-n junction characteristics. Transistor – pnp & npn characteristics and uses. Zener Diode characteristics. Simple electronic circuits, Logic gates – applications, modulation and demodulation.

10. Matter: States of matter. Elements, Compounds and Mixtures. Methods of separation of mixtures. Chromatography. Behavior of gases; measurable properties of gases; gas laws. Mole concept. Dolton, Avogadro, Berzelius laws.

11. Chemical Reactions: Physical and chemical changes. Types of Chemical reactions; Physical and Chemical properties various compounds. Chemical calculations. NaOH, Bleaching powder, baking soda, washing soda, and their uses, Plaster of Paris.

12.

Acids and Bases, Salts: Strength and uses of Acids & Bases. Neutralization. Nature and uses of different Salts. Water 
of crystallization. Complex, Neutral and double salts. Oxidation and Reduction, Rancidity. Identification of Acids, Bases–
Indicators: Natural, Chemical. PH Scale - Role of PH in daily life-agriculture, medicine. Classification of salts based on 
affinity to water Examples of Acidic, Basic, Mixed, Complex, Neutral and double salts. Solutions - Types of solutions; 
solubility, ionization, Concentration; Oxidation number concept. Balancing of Redox reactions, Calculation of Concentrations. 
Stoichiometry.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 35

13.

Atomic Structure: Electromagnetic spectrum, Atomic spectrum, Characteristics of electron, proton and neutron, Rutherford’s 
model of an atom, nature of electromagnetic radiation, Plank’s quantum mechanics, explanation of photo electric effect, 
features of atomic spectra, characteristics of hydrogen spectrum, Bohr’s theory of structure of atom, Bohr’s explanation of 
spectral lines, failure of Bohr’s theory, wave particle nature of electrons, de Broglie’s hypothesis, Heisenberg’s uncertainty 
principle, important features of the Quantum mechanical model of an atom, Quantum numbers, concept of orbitals, define 
an atomic orbital in terms of quantum numbers-shapes of s, p and d orbitals, n l x rule, Energies of electronic energy levels 
(n+l) rule state Auffbau principle, Pauli’s exclusive principle and Hund’s rule of maximum multiplicity, electronic configuration 
of atom, explanation of stability of half filled and completely filled orbital.

14.

Periodic Classification of Elements: Characteristics of elements in groups and periods. Signification of atomic number and 
electronic configuration as the basis per periodic classification. Classification of elements into s-block, p-block, d-block, 
f-block and their main characteristics. Periodic trends in physical and chemical properties of elements. Study of different 
Groups of periodic table.

15.
Chemical Bonding: Ionic and Covalent bonds: Introduction of chemical bonding. Electronic Configuration of Noble gases. 
sigma, pi bond with examples. Shapes of molecules bond lengths and bond angles in molecules. Hybridization and explanation 
of H2O, BF3, CH4, NH3 etc. molecules. Hydrogen bonding and types of H bonds.

16.

Carbon and its Compounds: Need to study of carbon compounds separately. Classification of Organic compounds Hydro 
carbons - Alkanes, alkenes, alkynes aromatic and aliphatic compounds with examples. Bonding in Carbon including 
Hybridization. Allotropes of Carbon. Versatile nature of carbon. Tetravalency, Chains, branches and rings. Catenation, 
Isomerism. Saturated and Unsaturated carbon compounds. Bonding of carbon with other elements. Functional groups in 
carbon compounds. Homologous series. Chemical properties of carbon compounds Combustion and Oxidation. Addition 
reactions. Substitution reaction. Important carbon compounds. Nomenclature organic compounds. Carbohydrates and their 
classification. Proteins-examples, Oils and fats examples Polythene - Nylon, PVC, Polyvinyl alcohol; Rubber – uses in daily 
life. Polymers, and other important organic compounds.

17. Environmental Chemistry: Different types of pollutions, acid rains, Ozone and its reactions, effects of depletion of ozone layer, Green house effect and global warming, Green Chemistry as an alternative tool for reducing pollution.

18.
Metallurgy: Occurrence of Metals. Minerals, Ores - Examples. Extractions of metals – activity series and related metallurgy, 
flow chart of steps involved in the extraction of metals from ore. Refining metals, Electrolytic refining, Corrosion – Prevention 
of Corrosion. Alloys and their uses.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 36

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Medical 
Standard

Suitability for Persons with 
Benchmark Disability

Minimum Educational 
Qualifications#Visual Impairment 

(VI)

Locomotor 
Disability 

(LD)

Hearing 
Impairment 

(HI)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

(a) Three years Diploma in Civil 
Engineering or B.Sc. in Civil 
Engineering of three years 
duration or (b) a combination 
of any sub stream of basic 
streams of Civil Engineering 
from a recognized University 
/ Institute.

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING C1 NO
OL with 

below knee, 
DW, AAV

NO

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

4

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OL with 

below knee, 
DW, AAV

NO

5 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION 

UNIT A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION 

UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

7 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D B2 No
OL, DW, 

AAV No

8 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

9 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

10 JUNIOR ENGINEER (RESEARCH) / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP C1 No
OL, DW, 
AAV, LC No

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

 Three years Diploma in (a) 
Mechanical / Production / 
Automobile / Electrical / 
Electronics / Instrumentation 
& Control Engineering  OR 
(b) a combination of any 
sub stream of basic streams 
of Mechanical / Production 
/ Automobile / Electrical / 
Electronics / Instrumentation 
& Control Engineering from 
a recognized University / 
Institute.

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED B1 NO OA,OL, DW, AAV NO

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER A3 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

19
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV D, HH

22

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

23 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / C and W MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

      CEN-03/2018 POST PARAMETERS                                                 Annexure-A



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 37

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Medical 
Standard

Suitability for Persons with 
Benchmark Disability

Minimum Educational 
Qualifications#Visual Impairment 

(VI)

Locomotor 
Disability 

(LD)

Hearing 
Impairment 

(HI)

24 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / ED MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

Three years Diploma in (a) 
Mechanical / Electrical / 
Electronics / Manufacturing 
/ Mechatronics / Industrial / 
Machining / Instrumentation 
& Control / Tools & Machining 
/ Tools & Die Making / 
Automobile / Production 
Engineering OR (b) a 
combination of any sub stream 
of basic streams of Mechanical 
/ Electrical / Electronics / 
Manufacturing / Mechatronics 
/ Industrial / Machining / 
Instrumentation & Control 
/ Tools & Machining / Tools 
& Die Making / Automobile 
/ Production Engineering 
from a recognised University/
Institute.

25 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / MP MECHANICAL R and D B2 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

26 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / TESTING MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

27 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

28
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
CARRIAGE

MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

30 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL / ED MECHANICAL R and D B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

31 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL / MP MECHANICAL R and D B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

32
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
TESTING

MECHANICAL R and D B1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

34 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKSHOP / ED MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 
AAV, LC NO

35

JUNIOR  ENGINEER 
(RESEARCH) / 
MECHANICAL / 

TESTING

MECHANICAL R and D C1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

36

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ DIESEL 

MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV, 
LC

NO

37 JUNIOR ENGINEER / JIG and TOOL MECHANICAL WORKSHOP C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV, 
LC

D, HH

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV, 
LC

D, HH

39 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MILLWRIGHT MECHANICAL WORKSHOP C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED B1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV NO

Three years Diploma in (a) 
Mechanical / Electrical / 
Electronics Engineering OR 
(b) a combination of any 
sub stream of basic streams 
of Mechanical / Electrical 
/ Electronics  Engineering 
from a recognised University/
Institute.

41
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 
DIESEL ELECTRICAL

(WORKSHOP)
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP C1 No

OA,OL, 
DW, AAV, 

LC
NO

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

43 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / EMU ELECTRICAL EMU A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

44

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL 

/ GENERAL 
SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES B1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

45
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
ELECTRICAL

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

47

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

48
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
ELECTRICAL

ELECTRICAL R and D C1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

49 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / TI ELECTRICAL R and D B2 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV No

50 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 38

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Medical 
Standard

Suitability for Persons with 
Benchmark Disability

Visual 
Impairment 

(VI)

Locomotor 
Disability 

(LD)

Hearing 
Impairment 

(HI)

52 JUNIOR ENGINEER / RESEARCH / TI ELECTRICAL R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD A3 NO NO NO

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS A3 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP C1 NO OL, DW, AAV, LC D, HH

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

57
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 

S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T PRODUCTION UNIT C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV NO

58 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / S and T S and T R and D C1 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV NO

59
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ RESEARCH / 
INSTRUMENTATION

S and T R and D C1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

61
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 

S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T R and D C1 NO OL, DW, AAV NO

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL A3 NO NO NO

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 

S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION A3 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV NO

65
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T 
(WORKSHOP)

S and T WORKSHOP C1 NO
OA,OL, 

DW, AAV, 
LC

NO

66 JUNIOR ENGINEER / PRINTING PRESS STORES
PRINTING 

PRESS B2 NO
OL, DW, 

AAV D, HH

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT C1 NO

OA, OL, 
DW, AAV D, HH

68
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS C1 LV OA,OL,BL, DW, AAV D, HH

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT B1 NO OL, DW, AAV D, HH

Minimum Educational 
Qualifications#

Three  years  Diploma  in 
(a)  Electrical  /  Electronics 
/  Information  Technology  / 
Communication  Engineering 
/  Computer  Science  & 
Engineering  /  Computer 
Science  /  Computer 
Engineering  OR  (b)  a 
combination of any sub stream 
of  basic  streams  of  Electrical 
/  Electronics  /  Information 
Technology  /  Communication 
Engineering  /  Computer 
Science  &  Engineering  / 
Computer Science / Computer 
Engineering from a recognized 
University/Institute.

i)  Matric  or  its  equivalent 
ii)  State  Diploma  or  All-
India  Certificate  in  Printing 
Technology  or  its  equivalent 
obtained after 3 years' course 
from  a  recognized  University/ 
Institute.
Three  years  Diploma  in 
Engineering  in  any  discipline 
from  a  recognized  University 
/ Institute.
PGDCA  /  B.Sc.  (Computer 
Science)  /  BCA  /  B.Tech.  ( 
Information  Technology)  / 
B.Tech.  (Computer  Science) 
/  DOEACC  'B'  level  course 
of  three  years  duration  or 
equivalent  from  recognized 
University  /  Institute  through 
regular  or  open  and  Distance 
Learning mode of education. 
Bachelor's Degree in Science 
with  Physics  &  Chemistry 
with  minimum  of  45%  marks 
from  a  recognized  University/ 
Institute.

#  Higher Qualifcations such as B.E/B.Tech are also acceptable in lieu of Three years Diploma in Engineering in the same Discipline.



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 39

RRB AHMEDABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Railway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING WR 22 6 2 9 39 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY WR 55 12 8 32 107 12 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS WR 21 7 2 7 37 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP WR 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON WR 34 9 6 9 58 8 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED WR 5 2 2 3 12 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP WR 6 2 2 5 15 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED WR 8 3 1 5 17 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES WR 13 4 3 2 22 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD WR 19 4 2 8 33 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS WR 4 0 0 3 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP WR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL WR 19 4 1 1 25 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T
TELE 

COMMUNICA
-TION

WR 13 3 0 1 17 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

65 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T (WORKSHOP) S and T WORKSHOP WR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT WR 3 1 1 1 6 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 225 58 30 86 399 45 0 0 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-AJMER

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Railway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE NWR 3 0 2 1 6 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NWR 11 3 0 9 23 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING WCR 1 1 1 2 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NWR 60 18 10 27 115 12 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY WCR 19 6 3 9 37 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NWR 85 18 10 43 156 16 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS WCR 8 4 2 7 21 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE NWR 34 10 5 18 67 7 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

CEN 03/2018 - VACANCY TABLE
RRB-wise, Railway-wise & Post-wise Vacancies for all the Notified Posts

ANNEXURE-B



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 40

RRB-AJMER

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NWR 32 7 5 16 60 7 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NWR 0 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NWR 6 2 1 3 12 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

36

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ DIESEL 

MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NWR 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NWR 36 10 7 21 74 8 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NWR 2 1 0 1 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

41
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 
DIESEL ELECTRICAL

(WORKSHOP)
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NWR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NWR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NWR 13 4 2 5 24 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES WCR 2 2 0 2 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NWR 50 15 7 26 98 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD WCR 4 1 0 2 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NWR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS WCR 6 1 0 4 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP NWR 12 2 2 4 20 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING NWR 1 0 1 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NWR 21 4 2 12 39 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL WCR 2 2 1 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T
TELE 

COMMUN-
ICATION

NWR 5 5 1 3 14 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NWR 4 1 0 3 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 421 120 62 222 825 81 0 5 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 41

RRB-ALLAHABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE NCR 4 0 1 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NCR 18 3 2 5 28 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NR 1 2 1 6 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NCR 117 36 10 57 220 22 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NR 35 9 5 20 69 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NCR 37 7 6 13 63 5 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NR 14 3 2 7 26 3 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP NCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE NCR 101 24 13 26 164 16 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NCR 64 18 9 27 118 12 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NR 44 13 6 24 87 9 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NCR 8 2 2 3 15 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NR 6 2 2 4 14 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT DLW 1 1 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NCR 14 4 3 8 29 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NR 59 15 9 30 113 6 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NCR 4 1 1 2 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NR 4 1 1 2 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NCR 8 2 2 0 12 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NCR 29 10 4 16 59 5 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NR 20 6 2 7 35 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT DLW 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NCR 37 9 3 18 67 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NR 21 7 3 11 42 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NCR 20 6 4 11 41 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NR 3 1 0 1 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 42

RRB-ALLAHABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP NCR 2 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP NR 14 4 2 8 28 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING NCR 1 1 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NCR 40 9 5 20 74 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NR 6 2 0 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMM-UNICATION NCR 23 2 3 8 36 3 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMM-UNICATION NR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NCR 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NR 2 1 1 1 5 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT DLW 9 5 0 2 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT NCR 16 2 2 0 20 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 788 209 108 341 1446 135 0 9 39 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-BANGALORE

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE SWR 7 2 1 3 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SWR 20 6 3 11 40 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SWR 46 16 7 26 95 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

4

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING PRODUCTIONUNIT RWF 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION

UNIT RWF 4 1 0 1 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SWR 24 8 3 14 49 5 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE SWR 42 12 5 22 81 8 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SWR 22 5 3 8 38 4 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SWR 2 0 0 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SWR 9 3 2 4 18 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT RWF 17 6 0 9 32 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SWR 23 7 3 12 45 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 43

RRB-BANGALORE

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SWR 7 2 1 3 13 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SWR 3 0 1 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SWR 16 5 3 9 33 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT RWF 10 2 1 5 18 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SWR 38 12 6 20 76 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP SWR 6 1 0 1 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING SWR 3 1 1 1 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SWR 34 10 4 17 65 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SWR 13 5 3 6 27 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT RWF 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT SWR 3 1 0 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

68
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS SWR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT RWF 9 2 1 4 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT SWR 4 2 0 2 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 365 110 48 185 708 72 0 1 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-BHOPAL

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE WCR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING WCR 4 1 1 2 8 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY WCR 24 7 4 13 48 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY WR 13 3 2 8 26 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS WCR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS WR 3 0 0 1 4 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE WCR 8 3 1 6 18 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON WCR 4 1 2 3 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON WR 9 1 2 3 15 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING WR 3 1 1 2 7 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 44

RRB-BHOPAL

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED WCR 11 2 2 5 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED WR 3 1 0 2 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP WCR 5 1 3 3 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP WR 19 4 2 8 33 3 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED WCR 11 4 2 6 23 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED WR 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING WCR 2 3 0 2 7 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES WCR 2 2 0 3 7 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES WR 3 1 0 1 5 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD WCR 13 5 2 8 28 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD WR 8 4 1 6 19 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS WCR 7 4 1 5 17 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP WR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING WCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL WCR 6 4 2 7 19 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL WR 3 2 2 2 9 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION WCR 3 1 1 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION WR 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT WR 3 1 1 2 7 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT WCR 8 1 0 3 12 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 186 59 32 106 383 39 0 1 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-BHUBANESWAR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE ECoR 0 1 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ECoR 10 6 2 7 25 3 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ECoR 19 7 4 10 40 5 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ECoR 12 4 3 10 29 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 45

RRB-BHUBANESWAR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE ECoR 22 5 5 8 40 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ECoR 5 3 1 4 13 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP ECoR 4 1 0 1 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING ECoR 3 2 1 1 7 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ECoR 10 5 2 8 25 3 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD ECoR 9 3 2 7 21 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS ECoR 4 3 1 3 11 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING ECoR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ECoR 4 1 1 4 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION ECoR 1 0 0 3 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT ECoR 4 1 1 2 8 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 108 42 23 69 242 26 0 5 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-BILASPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING CR 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SECR 15 3 3 7 28 2 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY CR 8 2 2 5 17 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SECR 33 12 9 18 72 5 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS CR 9 2 1 3 15 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SECR 26 4 5 4 39 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE SECR 29 9 5 15 58 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON CR 0 0 2 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SECR 8 1 0 3 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SECR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SECR 5 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 46

RRB-BILASPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SECR 12 4 0 2 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SECR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SECR 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES CR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SECR 11 1 1 2 15 2 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD CR 5 1 2 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SECR 14 0 2 3 19 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS CR 4 2 1 3 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS SECR 3 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING SECR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL CR 10 3 1 5 19 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SECR 11 7 4 4 26 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION CR 3 0 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SECR 5 2 1 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT SECR 1 1 1 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0

68
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS SECR 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 220 55 41 87 404 20 0 2 7 0 0 0 1 0 0 0

RRB-CHANDIGARH

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE NR 10 3 2 5 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NR 28 7 3 14 52 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NR 77 16 10 41 144 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NR 28 8 3 14 53 6 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE NR 58 15 9 31 113 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NR 49 14 7 26 96 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NR 33 8 5 16 62 6 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 47

RRB-CHANDIGARH

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NR 19 5 2 9 35 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NR 38 10 7 23 78 8 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NR 7 3 2 4 16 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NR 13 3 2 6 24 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

43 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / EMU ELECTRICAL EMU NR 24 6 3 12 45 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NR 27 7 4 15 53 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NR 12 3 2 5 22 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NR 20 5 3 11 39 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP NR 6 1 1 2 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING NR 6 2 0 3 11 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NR 5 0 0 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMM-UNICATION NR 6 1 0 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

65
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T 
(WORKSHOP)

S and T WORKSHOP NR 3 1 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NR 16 3 2 4 25 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT NR 41 10 6 19 76 7 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 526 131 73 266 996 90 0 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-CHENNAI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE SR 4 2 0 2 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SR 58 20 5 21 104 10 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SR 99 32 16 47 194 19 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION

UNIT ICF 4 0 1 1 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SR 29 8 4 17 58 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP SR 10 3 2 5 20 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE SR 111 30 15 54 210 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SR 22 4 2 2 30 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING ICF 3 4 1 2 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 48

RRB-CHENNAI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SR 10 1 0 1 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SR 8 1 1 2 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT ICF 24 4 7 14 49 5 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

36

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ DIESEL 

MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SR 74 19 13 36 142 14 0 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SR 5 1 2 2 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

41
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 
DIESEL ELECTRICAL 

(WORKSHOP)
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SR 3 0 1 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SR 24 4 4 9 41 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SR 5 1 0 3 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT ICF 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

47

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTIONUNIT ICF 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SR 17 6 2 11 36 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS SR 10 4 2 7 23 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP SR 2 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING SR 19 5 3 11 38 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SR 13 4 3 7 27 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SR 19 5 2 8 34 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

65
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T 
(WORKSHOP)

S and T WORKSHOP SR 5 3 3 4 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

66 JUNIOR ENGINEER / PRINTING PRESS STORES
PRINTING 

PRESS SR 5 1 0 2 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT ICF 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT SR 8 2 1 2 13 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT ICF 6 1 1 6 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT SR 22 7 3 12 44 4 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 625 173 94 291 1183 108 0 5 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 49

RRB-GORAKHPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING MCF 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NER 13 5 1 5 24 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NER 36 12 7 20 75 7 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

5 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION 

UNIT MCF 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION 

UNIT MCF 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

7 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D RDSO 25 6 3 11 45 5 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

8 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D RDSO 5 1 1 3 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

9 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING R and D RDSO 1 0 0 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

10 JUNIOR ENGINEER (RESEARCH) / CIVIL ENGINEERING R and D RDSO 17 6 2 13 38 4 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NER 6 3 1 3 13 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE NER 20 6 3 11 40 4 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NER 6 2 1 5 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NER 4 1 0 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NER 5 1 0 3 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER NER 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

22

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL PRODUCTION UNIT MCF 4 1 0 2 7 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

23 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / C and W MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 8 4 1 5 18 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

24 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / ED MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

25 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / MP MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 9 2 1 2 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

26 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / TESTING MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

27 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

28
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
CARRIAGE

MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

30 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL / ED MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 3 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

31 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL / MP MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

32
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
TESTING

MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 2 0 0 2 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

34 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKSHOP / ED MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

35

JUNIOR  ENGINEER 
(RESEARCH) / 
MECHANICAL / 

TESTING

MECHANICAL R and D RDSO 5 1 1 3 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NER 29 15 8 20 74 7 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 50

RRB-GORAKHPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

39 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MILLWRIGHT MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NER 1 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NER 3 1 0 1 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

41
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 
DIESEL ELECTRICAL

(WORKSHOP)
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NER 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NER 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NER 22 6 4 9 41 4 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT MCF 4 0 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

48
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
ELECTRICAL

ELECTRICAL R and D RDSO 2 1 0 5 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

49 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / TI ELECTRICAL R and D RDSO 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

50 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL R and D RDSO 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

52 JUNIOR ENGINEER / RESEARCH / TI ELECTRICAL R and D RDSO 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NER 33 11 6 18 68 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING NER 7 2 1 3 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

58 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DESIGN / S and T S and T R and D RDSO 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

59
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ RESEARCH / 
INSTRUMENTATION

S and T R and D RDSO 20 1 1 3 25 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

61
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T R and D RDSO 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NER 8 2 0 2 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION NER 9 2 0 2 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NER 5 1 0 1 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT RDSO 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT MCF 4 0 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT NER 3 1 1 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 336 97 45 165 645 59 0 3 20 0 0 0 1 1 0 0

RRB-GUWAHATI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NFR 35 10 5 19 69 7 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NFR 46 13 6 24 89 9 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NFR 50 14 7 28 99 10 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 51

RRB-GUWAHATI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP NFR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE NFR 26 8 4 14 52 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NFR 21 6 4 10 41 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING NFR 7 1 1 4 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NFR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NFR 36 10 6 18 70 6 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NFR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NFR 9 3 1 5 18 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NFR 5 1 1 3 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP NFR 10 2 1 4 17 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING NFR 7 2 1 4 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NFR 13 2 2 4 21 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T NFR 14 3 1 6 24 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT NFR 9 2 1 4 16 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT NFR 13 4 2 6 25 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 306 81 43 156 586 55 0 3 15 0 2 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-JAMMU-SRINAGAR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NR 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING RCF 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NR 46 10 7 24 87 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

4

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING PRODUCTIONUNIT DMW 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION

UNIT DMW 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NR 7 2 1 4 14 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP RCF 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NR 18 5 3 9 35 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 52

RRB-JAMMU-SRINAGAR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NR 7 2 1 4 14 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

19
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL PRODUCTIONUNIT RCF 10 0 1 0 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT DMW 28 11 5 18 62 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

21 JUNIOR ENGINEER / MECHANICAL MECHANICAL
PRODUCTION

UNIT RCF 26 9 3 11 51 5 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0

22

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL PRODUCTIONUNIT DMW 6 2 2 2 12 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP NR 10 3 2 5 20 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NR 5 2 1 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NR 24 7 4 12 47 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT DMW 2 1 1 1 5 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT RCF 1 1 1 4 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NR 9 2 1 4 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS NR 8 2 1 3 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

57
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T PRODUCTION UNIT DMW 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

57
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T PRODUCTION UNIT RCF 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NR 9 2 1 4 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION NR 3 1 0 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT DMW 2 0 1 2 5 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT RCF 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT DMW 1 0 1 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT RCF 4 1 0 2 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 237 65 37 119 460 42 0 4 5 0 1 0 1 1 0 0

RRB-KOLKATA

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE SER 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ER 11 2 1 8 22 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SER 15 4 2 7 28 3 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ER 59 17 10 37 123 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 53

RRB-KOLKATA

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY METRO 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SER 23 6 3 10 42 5 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

4

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING PRODUCTIONUNIT CLW 3 0 1 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

6 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING
PRODUCTION

UNIT CLW 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ER 17 6 5 10 38 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS METRO 1 1 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER /WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SER 29 9 3 17 58 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP SER 5 2 0 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE ER 16 5 2 8 31 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE SER 36 10 5 18 69 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ER 43 11 5 24 83 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SER 15 4 2 7 28 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING ER 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SER 3 1 1 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED ER 7 2 0 5 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SER 9 2 1 4 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER ER 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

19
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL PRODUCTION UNIT CLW 9 4 4 2 19 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

36

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ DIESEL 

MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SER 6 0 0 1 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

37 JUNIOR ENGINEER / JIG and TOOL MECHANICAL WORKSHOP ER 6 0 0 5 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP ER 114 41 18 74 247 25 0 6 5 0 2 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SER 75 22 9 39 145 14 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED ER 5 0 0 3 8 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SER 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

41
JUNIOR ENGINEER / 
DIESEL ELECTRICAL

(WORKSHOP)
MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SER 3 1 0 2 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING ER 4 1 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 54

RRB-KOLKATA

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SER 5 2 1 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

43 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / EMU ELECTRICAL EMU ER 7 3 1 5 16 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ER 22 7 4 5 38 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

45
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DESIGN / 
ELECTRICAL

ELECTRICAL PRODUCTION UNIT CLW 14 2 4 6 26 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

46 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL
PRODUCTION 

UNIT CLW 27 8 4 15 54 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD ER 3 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SER 10 3 1 5 19 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS ER 6 4 5 11 26 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS METRO 7 0 0 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS SER 11 3 1 6 21 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP ER 14 2 1 8 25 3 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP SER 10 2 1 5 18 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING SER 7 2 1 3 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ER 18 2 4 5 29 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL METRO 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION ER 25 5 1 9 40 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION METRO 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SER 1 0 1 4 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT CLW 6 1 1 3 11 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT ER 10 1 2 2 15 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT SER 13 3 1 6 23 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT CLW 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT ER 17 5 2 9 33 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT SER 17 4 3 8 32 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 780 211 112 416 1519 140 0 20 16 0 2 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 55

RRB-MALDA

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ER 1 1 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SER 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ER 31 6 3 4 44 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SER 11 6 2 9 28 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ER 7 2 1 2 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SER 4 1 0 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ER 35 16 5 12 68 6 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SER 8 2 1 4 15 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SER 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER ER 2 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SER 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ER 9 2 1 3 15 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SER 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD ER 11 3 2 0 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SER 3 1 0 1 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS ER 2 1 1 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ER 3 1 2 2 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SER 2 1 1 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELE COMMU-NICATION SER 2 1 1 1 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 137 46 20 45 248 23 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-MUMBAI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE CR 8 2 1 3 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE WR 2 1 1 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING CR 32 9 9 17 67 7 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING WR 8 1 3 8 20 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Stenos-RRB-SC
Typewriter

Stenos-RRB-SC
Typewriter



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 56

RRB-MUMBAI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY CR 87 26 15 53 181 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY WR 50 5 3 10 68 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS CR 44 13 7 20 84 8 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS WR 11 1 0 1 13 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP CR 4 1 1 1 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE CR 64 19 9 34 126 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE WR 10 0 0 10 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON CR 38 10 5 19 72 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON WR 6 3 1 6 16 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING WR 5 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED CR 5 0 2 6 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED WR 3 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

37 JUNIOR ENGINEER / JIG and TOOL MECHANICAL WORKSHOP WR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP CR 49 15 8 33 105 10 0 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP WR 49 12 8 21 90 9 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED CR 4 0 1 4 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED WR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING CR 46 5 3 8 62 6 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING WR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

43 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / EMU ELECTRICAL EMU WR 11 1 2 6 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES CR 12 2 1 6 21 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES WR 11 4 3 5 23 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD CR 14 6 2 8 30 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD WR 24 7 4 13 48 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS CR 7 6 4 10 27 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS WR 5 0 2 2 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP CR 26 8 5 13 52 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP WR 14 3 2 9 28 2 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 57

RRB-MUMBAI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING CR 8 2 0 5 15 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING WR 8 3 3 6 20 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL CR 53 16 8 19 96 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL WR 1 2 1 4 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION CR 34 6 5 13 58 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION WR 2 0 0 1 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

65
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T 
(WORKSHOP)

S and T WORKSHOP CR 4 2 1 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

66 JUNIOR ENGINEER / PRINTING PRESS STORES
PRINTING 

PRESS CR 3 1 0 2 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT CR 11 4 3 5 23 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT WR 4 1 1 1 7 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

68
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS WR 11 4 4 2 21 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT CR 5 1 1 2 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT WR 17 4 1 2 24 3 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 816 206 130 392 1544 146 0 15 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-MUZAFFARPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE ECR 3 1 0 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ECR 5 1 0 1 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ECR 30 8 4 14 56 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ECR 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ECR 6 2 1 4 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED ECR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER ECR 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED ECR 2 1 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ECR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 58

RRB-PATNA

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

1 JUNIOR ENGINEER / BRIDGE ENGINEERING BRIDGE ECR 7 4 1 3 15 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ECR 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ECR 21 12 3 11 47 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ECR 3 2 0 1 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP ECR 4 1 1 3 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE ECR 49 15 7 26 97 10 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ECR 14 5 4 8 31 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED ECR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER ECR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING ECR 1 1 1 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ECR 5 2 1 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD ECR 8 2 2 2 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS ECR 10 3 1 6 20 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ECR 5 3 2 2 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION ECR 3 2 0 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT ECR 5 1 1 3 10 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

68
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ECR 3 1 0 2 6 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT RWP 2 2 0 1 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 143 57 24 75 299 31 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-MUZAFFARPUR

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ECR 6 1 1 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELE COMMU-NICATION ECR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT ECR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 64 16 6 28 114 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 59

RRB- RANCHI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ECR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SER 1 0 2 1 4 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ECR 27 8 4 14 53 5 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SER 28 12 6 12 58 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ECR 10 3 1 3 17 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SER 11 4 3 2 20 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ECR 35 11 5 19 70 7 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SER 33 7 4 16 60 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SER 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

18
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL / 
POWER

MECHANICAL POWER ECR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED ECR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SER 3 3 2 3 11 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SER 3 3 1 4 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS SER 8 2 2 5 17 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ECR 3 1 0 2 6 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SER 3 1 1 2 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION ECR 8 2 1 4 15 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SER 2 1 0 2 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 183 58 33 91 365 35 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-SECUNDERABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING ECoR 2 1 1 0 4 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING SCR 53 11 5 26 95 10 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY ECoR 10 2 2 5 19 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SCR 53 13 8 12 86 9 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 60

RRB-SECUNDERABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS ECoR 8 2 2 5 17 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SCR 27 5 3 8 43 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

13 JUNIOR ENGINEER / CIVIL / WORKSHOP ENGINEERING WORKSHOP SCR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

14 JUNIOR ENGINEER / TRACK MACHINE ENGINEERING
TRACK 

MACHINE SCR 35 11 8 9 63 6 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON ECoR 2 1 2 2 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SCR 34 11 6 20 71 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

16

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ MECHANICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

MECHANICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SCR 5 3 1 1 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED ECoR 8 2 0 2 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SCR 12 2 2 6 22 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

38
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ MECHANICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

MECHANICAL WORKSHOP SCR 35 9 5 17 66 6 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED ECoR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SCR 4 1 1 3 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

42

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ ELECTRICAL / 

DESIGN DRAWING 
and ESTIMATION

ELECTRICAL DESIGN and DRAWING SCR 23 8 4 13 48 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

43 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / EMU ELECTRICAL EMU SCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES ECoR 1 0 1 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SCR 17 5 1 8 31 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD ECoR 9 1 1 1 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SCR 18 4 2 8 32 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS ECoR 1 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

54 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRS ELECTRICAL TRS SCR 2 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

55
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL 
(WORKSHOP)

ELECTRICAL WORKSHOP SCR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

56

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ S and T / DESIGN 

DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

S and T DESIGN and DRAWING SCR 3 1 0 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL ECoR 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SCR 18 5 1 11 35 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION ECoR 1 1 1 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SCR 13 3 2 7 25 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

65
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T 
(WORKSHOP)

S and T WORKSHOP SCR 2 1 1 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 61

RRB-SECUNDERABAD

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

66 JUNIOR ENGINEER / PRINTING PRESS STORES
PRINTING 

PRESS SCR 5 1 2 1 9 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

67 DEPOT MATERIAL SUPERINTENDENT STORES
STORES 
DEPOT SCR 10 3 1 4 18 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

69
CHEMICAL and 

METALLURGICAL 
ASSISTANT

MECHANICAL CMT SCR 18 4 2 2 26 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 434 112 65 178 789 68 0 3 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

RRB-SILIGURI

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

2

JUNIOR ENGINEER 
/ CIVIL / DESIGN 
DRAWING and 
ESTIMATION

ENGINEERING DESIGN and DRAWING NFR 14 5 2 8 29 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY NFR 36 12 6 20 74 7 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS NFR 18 5 3 11 37 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON NFR 4 1 0 3 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED NFR 4 1 1 2 8 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED NFR 3 0 0 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES NFR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD NFR 7 2 1 4 14 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL NFR 4 2 0 2 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION NFR 6 2 0 3 11 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 98 30 13 54 195 16 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0



CENTRALIZED EMPLOYMENT NOTICE (CEN) No.03/2018 62

RRB-THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Cat
No. Name of the Post Department

Sub 
Department

Raiway/
PU

No. of Vacancies

UR SC ST OBC TO-TAL
Ex
SM

R-
VI

R-
HI

R-
LD

R-
OD

R-
MD

B-
VI

B-
HI

B-
LD

B-
OD

B-
MD

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15) (16) (17) (18) (19) (20) (21)

3 JUNIOR ENGINEER / P WAY ENGINEERING P WAY SR 37 9 3 18 67 7 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

12 JUNIOR ENGINEER / WORKS ENGINEERING WORKS SR 6 3 1 3 13 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

15
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ CARRIAGE and 
WAGON

MECHANICAL CARRIAGE and WAGON SR 9 1 1 1 12 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

17
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ DIESEL 
MECHANICAL

MECHANICAL DIESEL SHED SR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

40 JUNIOR ENGINEER / DIESEL ELECTRICAL MECHANICAL
DIESEL 
SHED SR 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

44
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ ELECTRICAL / 
GENERAL SERVICES

ELECTRICAL GENERAL SERVICES SR 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

53 JUNIOR ENGINEER / ELECTRICAL / TRD ELECTRICAL TRD SR 2 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

63 JUNIOR ENGINEER / S and T / SIGNAL S and T SIGNAL SR 9 5 2 6 22 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

64
JUNIOR ENGINEER 

/ S and T / 
TELECOMMUNICATION

S and T TELECOMMU-NICATION SR 8 3 2 3 16 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Total 75 22 9 31 137 13 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Grand Total 7073 1958 1048 3403 13487 1254 0 81 259 0 5 0 3 2 0 0

Note on PwBD Vacancies: Vacancies falling under share off rest of the newly added 
disabilities shall be take n care in future recruitments, in accordance with the decision 
regarding suitability.




