











































 

 

  

RAILWAY RECRUITMENT BOARDS 
Government of India, Ministry of Railways  

 

CEN 03/2015 - Important Notice 

Inviting Fresh Order of Preferences for various NTPC (Graduate) posts from 

candidates appeared in 2
nd

 Stage Exam (CBT) 

 
Consequent upon the implementation of recommendations of 7

th
 Central Pay Commission(7

th
 CPC) 

after the publication of CEN-03/2015, the post of Assistant Station Master (ASM) notified with Grade 

Pay of `2800/- has been upgraded & merged with the post of Station Master (SM) in Grade Pay of 

`4200/-(Level 6 as per 7th CPC). Similarly, the Grade Pay of the post of Traffic Assistant notified at 

`2000/- has been enhanced to `2400/-(Level 4 as per 7th CPC).  Further, in terms of Para 1.14 of the 

Notification some modifications have been made in vacancies for certain posts.  

In view of the above circumstances, it is considered desirable and in the interest of the candidates to 

provide them an opportunity of reviewing their preferences for various posts.  The candidates who 

wish to change their preferences indicated initially in the on-line application may revise their 

preferences using this opportunity.  In case of those candidates who do not avail of this opportunity, 

their  original preferences exercised at the time of on-line application will be deemed as final, subject 

to the modified vacancies as on date. 

All the candidates who have appeared in the 2
nd

 Stage CBT during 17
th

 to 19
th

 January, 2017 are 

accordingly hereby advised to exercise option of filling fresh preferences. The exercise of the 

option must be made within the period from 08.05.2017 (00:00 hrs) to 14.05.2017 (23:59 hrs) 

through the link provided for the purpose on the websites of respective RRBs.  It is important to 

note that the candidates who wish to change their earlier preferences will have to fill up complete 

preferences with respect to all posts as their earlier preferences will stand ignored in toto.  The scope 

of change of preference of posts and/or Railways/PUs is permitted only within the same RRB to which 

they had applied.  No further request for change of preferences beyond the above period or in other 

forms like physical application etc. will be entertained on any ground.  

In case of non-furnishing of fresh preference by any candidate within the above stipulated period, it 

will be considered that they do not wish to exercise the option and their original preference for posts 

exercised at the time of on-line application will be deemed as final, subject to the modified vacancies 

as on date.  The result of 2
nd

 stage CBT will be processed on the basis of fresh preferences so 

exercised.  Candidates please note that this opportunity of revising the preferences per se does not 

confer any right for employment in Indian Railways. 

Date: 04.05.2017  
Chairpersons 

Railway Recruitment Boards 

 


